Foreword
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/vol1-foreword/

I have left another note at the end of Volume 1, but I feel I should preface the rewrites by explaining what’s changed.
Seven years ago, I wrote The Wandering Inn’s first volume and had no idea it would be successful, or even read by more than a dozen people. I had hopes—but the first draft had a lot of experimental ideas, or unformed concepts.
This rewrite that you can find on the site has been the work of years. I’ve known that rewriting Volume 1 is something I should do, but I’ve put it off. I wanted to rewrite the first few chapters, or parts of the story because it’s rougher and weaker than what I can currently do.
But rewriting is hard. So hard that I had to learn how to edit by working with professional editors and get two years of experience before I even took on the project—and it still took me months of working in the background as I’m sure readers of Volume 9 are aware of.
However. I am happy with the rewrites because I did not erase what made Volume 1 good in my mind—I just upgraded the weak parts and kept the bones of what made the story appealing to so many.
For an old reader, don’t fret. You can find the old chapters and all the comments in an archive on the site. If you want to see what’s new, it might be good to read everything from start to finish. Volume 1 chapters are literally a tenth as long as some Volume 9 chapters.
But to clarify what I’ve done in the rewrites…some chapters are not touched at all. Others have minor tweaks for consistency’s sake. I have added several perspectives not in the original Volume. However, the largest change has been the complete rewrite of two chapters which I feel have vastly improved major plot points in the story, as well as prose.
It’s my birthday as of posting this, and it’s very fitting. I can finally show people a start to The Wandering Inn I’m proud of, and that opens the way for a lot. Physical books, a polished start for any new readers—and I didn’t do it alone.
I would like to thank a bunch of people for getting The Wandering Inn to this part. In no particular order, JAD Illustrated and Shawn King for creating the iconic covers for the story. Diana Gill for helping me re-write the story. My assistant, agent, my beta-reading team, and the typo killers, who have slain probably millions of grammatical and spelling errors, even in this very author’s note. My family, from my parents and siblings to my grandfather, who have all supported my writing as it changed from a hobby to a career.
Last of all, I’d like to thank a certain [Web Developer] who has helped upgrade the site.You may now see a ‘reader settings’ icon, and it has the ability to change font size, and even enabled the blasphemous light mode and other settings for reader experience. More updates to come, but this may be a huge help for anyone who wants a different reading style. All of this helps for the enjoyment of people who come to the site, and that’s a great thing.
I could not get here without help, and I hope for any readers new or old they enjoy what’s been rewritten and what’s to come. Thanks so much for reading,
‑‑pirateaba
Start Reading 1.00

Comments
Storm (2023-03-05T02:55:58)
The legendary tale of The Wandering Inn begins.
Herb Powell (2023-03-05T05:20:33)
Um, WHICH two chapters?  Tweaks and prose don’t bother me much either way, but I would appreciate being directed to substantial changes.
Big I (2023-03-05T05:45:58)
Interlude – King, and Ryoka’s final chapter of Volume 1, 1.55 R.
MaximilianShade (2023-03-05T05:46:14)
When will the ebook receive the updates to volume 1? (or have they already gone out?)
afkcuzbookiscool (2023-03-05T11:59:31)
Thanks for your work, and for starting all of this!
afkcuzbookiscool (2023-03-05T12:00:56)
Btw, could you tell us when those changes will be mirrored on the Kindle version? :)
matt (2023-03-05T14:52:32)
So you are saying I need to re-read the whole story a third time?
Ferhys (2023-03-05T15:53:04)
Yes! Time to go for a full reread!
ChronoMager (2023-03-05T18:42:30)
I’ve been wanting to re-read Volume 1, but have been holding it off until you were ready. Let the adventure commence anew!
Stephen (2023-03-06T19:51:06)
Happy Belated Birthday Pirateaba. I hope it was great.
Brandon (2023-03-08T20:12:00)
Wait there are physical books? Where can I buy? Amazon only has ebook and I didn’t see it on merch site
LuminescentMoon (2023-04-01T04:59:10)
Rereading my favorite story for the first time! Can’t wait for the most wonderful adventure to begin again! ?
Crissicks (2023-06-13T03:40:10)
Does anyone know if the eBOOK has been updated? Thanks
Kannon fodder (2023-06-23T00:10:24)
Does anyone know if the audible book will be updated?
Ryoka_Fan #1 (2024-02-07T09:10:25)
Hey new readers!! I hope you have a blast with this absolutely terrific story~~ It’s such a pleasure, and thanks so much pirateaba!!
Emily Jones (2024-05-18T19:22:32)
Hi, I’m a bit confused. Is this one story or a lot of separate stories. If one story, where do I actually start? Sorry, I did read your forward but it’s 5am & freezing. Think my brazing is a tad frozen.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.00
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-00/

The inn was dark and empty when the traveller arrived. It appeared suddenly, rising above the gentle hills and valleys of autumnal grass that blew in the wind, green, orange, and even purple in places.
The rolling plains were deceptive from afar. At first the many hills and divots seemed gentle, mere waves along a grassy plain. But the closer you got, the more you realized how easy it was to lose your bearings. In the center of a flat stretch of grass surrounded by hills on every side, you could look around and not know where you were. Even climbing a hill, all you might see was a mountain range.
Mountains so vast they disappeared into clouds on all sides grudgingly parted to form a pass connecting the north and south. Cliffs of stone slowly ridding themselves of vegetation and life, rising without end, promising to wall off the world except in this one spot where a gap had been chiseled. No other signs of civilization—at least not without the right vantage point.
That was why the inn was such a relief to the lost traveller. It had been placed on one of the highest hills for reasons of safety come spring, but also to act as a beacon. You might catch a glimpse of the roof, sagging in places but still mostly intact, or the chipped paint peeling along some shutters slightly moldy with disuse.
Yet, the inn stood. It had been there for decades, and whilst the other buildings had long since fallen to rubble or been burnt, the inn had been spared. When armies marched, it had been abandoned, then later reclaimed. When undead came flooding across the land, once more the inn had fallen empty. Only, this time, the windows stayed dark. Hopeful travellers stopped looking for anyone at the door, and visitors were rare anyways these days.
Abandoned, the inn waited. The Skills and care that had been put into the old wood, the magic etched into the bones of this building remained, defying a decade of disuse.
That was why the young woman was drawn to it. Not just because it was the first building she’d seen since coming to this world. Because of what it represented.
She stumbled through the thick grass, looking over her shoulder with every few panting breaths, but her desperate sprinting had long since turned to weary trudging despite the terror still coursing through her. The young woman smelled of brimstone and fire. She clutched at her right arm, and the t-shirt she wore was charred, as was her arm.
The girl climbed the hill, even though there was no light in the windows, not knowing what she might find.
The inn. In every world, the inn was a gathering place. Somewhere to meet people, to rest, a point along your travels. Somewhere an epic quest could begin, or where the weary traveller could sit around a warm fire.
A safe place. But this inn was dark, and the hope faded in the traveller’s chest as she reached the top of the hill.
“Hello? Is…is anyone…?”
She called out as she looked at the dark building. The door was closed, and nothing stirred at her voice. The young woman looked over her shoulder and hesitated.
Was it still out there? She doubted this place could keep her safe, but the strange land of hills and those impossibly huge mountains were overwhelming. Worse—it was growing dark, and it was going to be a darkness bereft of any artificial light.
The idea of staying outdoors with those red-eyed things, or the Dragon, made her shudder. So the young woman pushed the door open and called out again.
“Anyone here? Hello? I need—”
She knew the inn was empty the moment she opened the door. The smell was like that of a library long-abandoned, dusty and moldy—the first wave of stale air made the young woman cough and hack.
“No. Darn it. Of course it’s empty.”
All at once, the traveller sighed and leaned against the doorframe. Her strength ran out of her at the sight of the dark interior, the faint outlines of chairs and tables shrouded in cobwebs and dust proof that nothing had set foot in here for ages. She rested her forearm on the other arm and then winced as the burns screamed at her. Not to be left out, the cuts on her legs throbbed.
She tried not to cry. The young woman had known,known the inn was probably deserted when she saw it. She’d known, but hope—
“It’s not fair. Ever since I came to this world, everything’s been going wrong.”
Talking helped. Talking made her feel like she wasn’t crazy. The girl looked around.
The inn was cavernous, a building meant to hold entire crowds. She felt as small as an ant and unwelcome, like a thief stealing into someone else’s property at night. It was…very dark. Even the fading evening light wasn’t welcome here. A few steps in and the young woman heard her footfalls echoing, then the sound being swallowed. She hesitated. Should she enter?
Inside was darkness, and while it was dusty and she felt like an intruder—the young woman looked over her shoulder.
She was hurt. There were things outside.Monsters. She’d seen them—they’d nearly killed her! 
Monsters and an unfamiliar world. A world that wasn’thers. What she was sure was a Dragon, and she had no idea how she’d gotten here. She had no idea how to go back. She had no idea where here was.
“I just wanted to go to the bathroom.”
It was a plaintive whisper. The girl looked back once more and was almost about to back out of the strange inn when she heard the first sounds overhead.
She jumped, looked up, sprang out the doorway—and straight into the first wet,cold raindrops. The girl threw up her hands, gazed up, got a faceful of water, and ran inside as the skies opened up.
It began to rain, and the cool air grew colder still. Thepatter of raindrops overhead tapped down through the cracks in the roof, dripped down through floorboards, and landed in the dust where they vanished.
Then it became a roar of sound, and the shower turned the world outside into oblivion. The young woman’s eyes opened wide, and she backed away.
“No good. I guess—”
She found herself inside the inn and gazed about. She coughed again as the dust settled.
It was suddenly, unaccountably, peaceful. Despite the onslaught of rain, the young woman realized she might be safe.
The fire-breathing lizard-thing probably didn’t like rain, and it was so wet it’d douse even a forest fire. And the little green things with teeth would surely never find her in this! The young woman looked around, and as if a reward had appeared for her surviving all of this, she saw a chair.
Just a worn, overturned chair, clearly the sufferer of a thousand bottoms. But it invited her. Slowly, the young woman bent down, righted the chair, then began coughing and sneezing again as more dust overwhelmed her. But she brushed the chair off and sat down.
She closed her eyes for a moment. Just a moment. She’d rest here to begin with, get her bearings, and then figure out what had happened and why. The adrenaline slowly drained out of her, and Erin Solstice leaned back, trying to get comfortable.
She was almost ready to pass out, but a thought nagged at her. She cracked open one eye and looked around. She sighed, opened the other eye, and addressed the empty room.
“I’m really hungry.”
After a few minutes, Erin Solstice sat back up. The traveller, the first guest of this inn in ages, looked around and rubbed at her eyes.
No—not a traveller. She hadn’t been intending to travel anywhere tonight. The young woman frowned as she looked around.How had she gotten here?
Not just here, as in this abandoned inn, but here—here? She’d been going to the bathroom after finishing a game of chess in her room, in her home, and then…she must have taken a wrong step somewhere.
It must have been areally big wrong step, because instead of walking into the bathroom and seeing the comforting sight of porcelain, she’d suddenly found herself in a cave, nose-to-nose with a slumbering—
Dragon.
Erin leapt to her feet, heart pounding. It hadn’t been a dream! She looked around and felt at her right arm.
The burns flared up again, and Erin winced.
“It’s definitely not a dream. But how am Iburnt? I could have sworn it missed!”
The jet of violet flame had shot wide of her by a mile, but it had still broiled her right side. Her jeans had kept her right leg from burning as badly as her unprotected arm, but it still hurt. Erin had no idea how she’d dodged, but that had saved her life. She’d run out of that…cave…and then?
Then she’d found herself running around the rolling valleys and foothills, calling for help and screaming as she realized she wasnot home. That had been a mistake, because the shouting had attracted attention. Attention, not help.
A bunch of little green things with red eyes and mouths full of teeth had come after her. They’d slashed at her legs as she ran—still screaming—and lost them.
“What were those things? G—they sort of looked like—Goblins? No way. This has to be a dream, but my arm hurts too bad for it to be a dream.”
That was her paradox. There was no way this was happening. Everything felt real, from the pain to the aching in her feet and tickling in her throat from the dust hanging in the air. However—this was surreal.
“What is this place? An inn? Really?”
Now that she looked around, it was clear that a lot of things were wrong. Erin had been in old-fashioned buildings, even to Renaissance faires, but this—this was the real thing.
There was no glass on the shuttered windows. She couldn’t see evidence of plastic or anything beyond simple wood or metal fixtures. There was no overhead lighting—and yet it was still very much the common room of an inn.
The tables and chairs might be covered with dust and spiderwebs—without any spiders—but there was a bar against the far wall and a staircase leading up. A single room seemed to lead off to another part of the inn, but most of the building was just this vast central space.
It should have been lively, Erin felt. She looked at the bar and imagined someone behind it, polishing a mug and serving a lovely cold drink of—
Erin’s longing sigh was accompanied by a third fit of coughing so long that she actually stumbled over to the door where it was pouring rain to gulp for air.
The dust!Her third assailant in this world was trying to kill her! Eyes streaming, Erin gulped for air. It was like she was breathing the stuff. She wiped at her face, coughed one more time, sneezed, then glared back at the inn.
“This place is going to kill me! I’m going to choke to death before the rain stops. Someone should clean it up!”
She looked around.
“…And I guess that someone is me.”
The young woman hesitated, but it was clear that if she tried to stay in this place for a few hours, let alone sleep the night, she’d probably attract every monster in ten miles by her coughing alone…if she didn’t suffocate in her sleep.
“Besides, this would make for a great place to explore from, and it’s got walls. I’m not going to find anything better, I bet. Then I…”
Her voice trailed off. Erin looked around and felt the unbelievable nature of what had happened building on her.
Do what? Where am I? What happened?
She fought off a wave of panic threatening to engulf her. No—she couldn’t panic. She couldn’t—Erin glanced at the pouring rain. It was muffling anything from outside, but she clamped her mouth shut.
She couldn’t scream. It was possible something could hear her through the downpour. 
Don’t scream, don’t panic.Think. She wasn’t running for her life. She had to think. So the young woman forced herself to sit down at a table. She faced it, squared her shoulders, and adopted something like a reasonable posture.
“First things first. I should stay here. I don’t know what’s going on. I don’t know if this inn issafe—but it’s dusty. It’s got walls. So I explore. Also, I find something to clean all this stuff up with. I don’t want to use my shirt. Seems like a bad move, but I can’t breathe here without…okay. First steps. Pawn to E4. Pawn to C5. Sicilian Defense. Here we go.”
And with that, she got up and began to explore the inn. The first thing Erin actually did, before even venturing into other rooms, was check her pockets.
Most people went into their adventures well-equipped or with some nifty object that gave them an edge. Erin checked her pockets and found…nothing. If she’d known she was going to end up in this place, she would have brought along a backpack crammed full of essentials. And a gun. To fight off the little green men and the Dragon.
But she hadn’t planned this and, unfortunately, hadn’t even taken aphone. She’d been going to the bathroom! 
Erin’s forehead wrinkled as she circumnavigated the common room first, checking the tables and chairs for something, anything. All she found was more dust.
It had been so fast. All she’d done was step into the bathroom and she’d been somewhere else. No flash of light, no wardrobe—did bathrooms count?
Apparently so, but it had been so sudden she felt like she’d been wronged, somehow. No mysterious voices, just bathroom teleportation. How?
Virtual reality? Very virtual if so, but it felt too real. No. Then—she was crazy?
Erin hoped not. However, the Goblins and Dragon made her feel there was only one reasonable, unreasonable explanation.
Magic. This was some kind of fantasy-land. Which meant she probably needed a sword or a wand. Or a magic sword.
But it became clear to her that the first thing that Erin needed was…a dustrag. And that became her first mission in this world.Get a dustrag and clean yourself a spot to sit.
It was proving to be a harder challenge than anticipated. There was nothing in the common room, even behind the bar, aside from a line of very dusty mugs. Erin hesitated before the door adjoining the bar and poked her head inside.
The young woman blinked at the semi-familiar sight. It was a kitchen alright; it had cutting boards built into the counters, a bunch of cupboards, and even a stove—a stone stove with a hatch to build a fire, nothing gas or electric.
The same for the ovens—she saw a giant, old-fashioned baker’s oven that led up to a presumed chimney. Here, at least, there were actual objects. A pot, cast-iron pan, and a few other utensils, including the world’s rustiest ladle, were all lying next to…
“Aha!”
Erin found a bucket. It was not a dustrag, but you needed water to clean things, right? And she happened to have a fresh supply coming down right outside.
She grabbed the bucket and towed it outside to fill up. After a second, she ran inside and grabbed some of the old mugs she’d found and set them outside to catch more water. She might need it.
Encouraged, Erin went back to her dustrag hunt. She began opening cupboards in the kitchen, but just found plates, old utensils, what might have been more dust or disintegrated food—
Nothing cloth at all.
“Drat.”
Erin gave up on her cupboard search and left the rest for later. Did you store dustrags in the kitchen? Maybe with towels, but she needed a pantry. She scoped out the rest of the ground floor but found nothing so handy.
“Darn.”
Well, that only left upstairs.
It was a very dark stairwell that looked down on Erin as she put her first foot on the stairs. The young woman looked up and gulped. Given the size of the ground floor, the staircase to the second floor was…ominous, to say the least. It looked like the bones of some gigantic monster in the darkness.
Cautiously, Erin ascended. It seemed as though every second staircreaked or groaned loudly as she placed her weight upon it, and the sounds echoed in the dark inn. To Erin, it felt like she was stepping on landmines—each time she heard a loud creak, her heart sped up and caught in her throat.
“Come on. Come on. You can do this.”
Erin whispered to herself, keeping her voice low so as not to—to wake up anything that might be up there. At that thought, her heart skipped another beat, and she paused halfway up the stairwell, shaking slightly.
“This is stupid. There’s nothing up there. Nothing!”
She paused.
“Okay, maybe thereis something. I don’t know. There could be—more of those Goblins? But there’s probably not a Dragon, right? Right! Don’t be stupid.”
Hesitation. Another step.
“But a Dragoncould be up there.”
Erin took a step back down. The stairs creaked. She scolded herself as her heart thumped painfully.
“Don’t be stupid. How would a Dragon fit up there? But Goblins?”
With a small laugh, Erin gazed upwards. The darkness on the second floor waited for her. Long shadows made the chipped and faded wood ominous. But it was just an illusion, a trick of the mind. She knew there was probably nothing up there. If there were, wouldn’t it have tried to eat her already?
But this was a different kind of fear that held her heart. It was a child’s fear, the fear of the dark and the unknown. So, Erin hesitated. But she knew she had to climb.
After a minute, she began talking to herself quietly.
“Dustrag. Dustrag, dustrag, dustrag…”
Erin muttered the word like a mantra. Somehow, the thought that sheabsolutely needed to find one gave her the strength to continue climbing the stairs.
One step. That was the hardest. Then two steps. Erin’s heart jumped as the stairscreaked underneath her, but nothing terrible happened. So she kept climbing.
However, if the sketchy staircase was the first hurdle of the mind, the empty corridor full of shadows and darkness was an entirely new level of intimidation.
It was so dark. Even when her eyes adjusted, Erin could barely see five feet in front of her. But having come this far, she was committed. So she kept going with her heart pounding out of her chest.
“Dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag…”
The first room she came to was very, very dark. Erin crept inside and froze as she heard a sound. Was that…rustling?
No. No, it was just her imagination. She could hear the storm passing outside with the rain making a racket on the roof overhead. The wind was blowing against the inn, that was all. It was probably just a leaf—
Rustle, rustle.
Definitely a sound. Erin’s heart played the drums in her chest. There was something in the room with her, and she really hoped for once that it was just a rat. Something—it sounded almost leathery, like two wings unfurling…
“Dustragdustragdustragdustragdustra—”
In the distance, thunder rolled, and a gust of wind blew hard against the inn. Something pale and white unfurled itself in the darkness and flew at Erin. She screamed, flailed wildly at the thing, and crashed to the ground with it in her arms.
For a minute, all was confusion and noise. Erin fought wildly against the monster attacking her as rain started pelting her face and it wrapped itself around her arms and head. She eventually threw it off her and scrambled to her feet to find the terrifying creature was—
A curtain.
For a few seconds, Erin just stared at the faded fabric in her hands in complete shock. Once her heart had decided to stop running a marathon, she exhaled.
“Curtains.”
She picked up the pale bit of fabric and studied it. Well, it was a curtain. That was about the extent of her detective skills. It was a white curtain—or at least it had been white a long time ago. Mildew and dirt had turned it grey, but at least it was fabric.
“Okay, okay.”
Erin’s heart was still racing far too fast. She looked around. The room was still very dark, and the wind coming in from outside made the windows shudder in avery eerie manner.
Erin closed the window. That stopped the noise, at least. But it was still way too dark to make out many details. Now, shecould keep exploring the second floor. Or, having found a dustrag, she could go back down to the bottom floor. The comforting, familiar, dusty ground floor.
The room was very dark. Erin took another look around and quickly went back downstairs. She tossed the curtain on one of the tables next to the bucket she’d found and looked around.
“Let’s see. Where should I start, then?”
Really, the better question was wherenot to start. Aside from the walls, everything was covered by a thick layer of dust. In the end, Erin started with the table she’d sat at.
The wet curtain…rag raised a cloud of dust into the air, making Erin stumble away, coughing and hacking. But the actual task of cleaning was in fact very easy.
Erin took the dustrag, dropped it in the bucket of water, then slapped it over one table. The dull sound made her jump and look around, but nothing moved, so she took hold of the dustrag, dragged it along the table, and took all the dust and pushed it onto the floor.
Then she did another pass until she could see the wood grain beneath, a dark brown now that night was falling, and squeezed the cloth and dipped it in the bucket once more.
One dip turned the water dark grey, but rain meant that Erin had a lot of free water. Ironically, all the dust seemed to have prevented mold or other more clinging stains. A few passes of the dustrag, sending clumps and clouds of dust billowing onto the floor, and the table was mostly clean, if wet.
“Table’s done! That just leaves—um…”
Erin looked around and began to count the tables—and chairs—and floor—then decided to just clear one more table so maybe she could sleep on top. And maybe a few chairs. And since it was going fast and the rain wasn’t letting up, why not do all the tables?
Every time her bucket got so disgusting that it made the rag filthier than when it went in, Erin opened the door of the inn, tossed the water out, and sat back in one of the chairs until the bucket had filled up again. Then she started cleaning once more.
There was a rhythm to it. In no time at all, Erin had cleaned the tables, so she decided to clean all the chairs too. And once she’d finished with that, it only made sense to clean the bartop as well.
The long counter was made of some kind of high-quality wood. Erin admired the way the faint light from outside made the rich wood glow after removing the dust. The bar was long enough to accommodate at least twenty people at a time…or fifteen if they were picky about elbow room.
That done, Erin cleaned the barkeep’s shelf below the bar and the other surfaces in the common room. When she was finished, the inn seemed far warmer than it had before as the newly clean surfaces reflected the fading light from outside.
However, there was one place that Erin had avoided the entire time. Namely, the floor.
It was only natural. Erin had nothing like a mop, and she’d been pushing all the dust onto the floor the entire time. As such, huge piles of wet dust clumped together everywhere. Erin kicked at a pile and shrugged.
“Well, when you compare it with the tables and chairs…”
She could only laugh at her strange results. Clean tables, dirty floor. You could eat your dinner off the tables, at least. And who cared about floors? Floors were for stepping on, not sleeping. Erin wiped at her forehead and found she was covered with a layer of sweat. And—was it nightfall already?
Yes, sometime in her cleaning efforts, the rain had ceased and the visible light had decreased until the inn was nearly pitch dark. Now, instead of everything being a mass of shadows, there was nothing to see at all.
“So it’s notscary, but terrifying. Great.”
At least the ground floor was reassuring. Erin looked around the room, her eyes spotting the moonlight reflecting off the smooth tabletops and chairs. Yes, this room did feel a bit better. She’d cleaned it and thus made it hers, in a way. That made it safe. At least, she really hoped that was the case.
Erin sat back down in a chair and found she was exhausted. She leaned back against the table and sighed. If ever she needed proof that she was terrible in a survival situation, this would be it. Here she was, lost in a terrifying world without a clue where she was, and what was her first move? Clean the room.
“At least Mom would be happy.”
Erin laughed to herself. She closed her eyes, overcome by exhaustion. Time to rest. Maybe tomorrow, everything would be better. Maybe this was all just a dream. Probably not, but…
Her eyelids lowered. Her breathing grew slower. Erin just had enough consciousness for one last thought.
“Now I’m really,really hungry.”
[Innkeeper Class Obtained!]
[Innkeeper Level 1!]
[Skill – Basic Cleaning obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Cooking obtained!]
In the darkness, the girl cracked one eye open. She looked around and then sat up.
“…What was that?”
Next Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:23:52)
Hello It’s me, pirateaba. And nobody else. I write a novel a week and worry it’s not enough boo hoo.
Reply to this comment below with typos!
Othius (2023-03-05T02:47:17)
Oh man it’s out, time to see what’s different!
AugustRed (2023-03-05T03:07:28)
Thank you Pirate, for writing this story. Despite the uncountable late nights I stayed up because you posted a chapter, or when I just didn’t sleep because I couldn’t stop reading, I can confidently say that my life would be worse without TWI in it.
For everyone who is entering the Inn for the first time, let this fat duck welcome you! Grab a seat and order something to eat, personally I recommend the steaks, they are magical, because once you start reading you won’t stop until your body can’t read no more.
Ben Wildgust (2023-03-05T11:10:17)
Ahhh, memories! :)
If you’re new here, please carry on. You’re in for a treat!
Soph (2023-03-05T11:33:10)
So excited for this rewrite, this story has been one of the biggest joys in my life for years.
wizerdo37 (2023-03-05T14:11:43)
oh god this woman Erin is interesting, let’s see what she will do next in this new world of creepy beasts and little red-eyed demons?
let’s see…
Gisela (2023-03-05T16:46:43)
I can already see changes that make the story. Much better! I can’t wait to start this journey again.
DanCarbonell00 (2023-03-05T21:22:11)
I’ve been wanting to do a reread for so long now but I’ve been holding off because I didn’t want to instantly have to go back and reread from the beginning again anyway when the rewrite came out. (Turns I had time aplenty xD) I even stayed away from the first 15 chapters that were put out early because I didn’t want to spoil any of it. I wanted to save it for a glorious reread from the start and we’re finally here!!!! I am beyond stoked.
This is the closest experience I have ever been able to have in regards to ‘book amnesia’ and being able to re-experience the glory of a story for the first time again. I could cry.
joemomo499 (2023-03-06T18:04:50)
Amazing tale ahead.
Bless you Pirate for this wonderful journey, and taking us all back to the beginning of it. Happy birthday and thanks for giving us your present.
Dfan (2023-03-07T05:58:40)
Feels bizarre to be back to the start. Excited for the reread
Ava (2023-03-09T07:19:09)
What she was sure was a Dragon -> What she was sure of was a Dragon
Mika (2023-03-10T11:54:52)
I’m so overdue for a reread. Time for a journey!
Grault (2023-03-14T02:19:41)
The bar was long enough to accommodate at least twenty people at a time…or fifteen if theywere [weren’t] picky about elbow room.
Tim (2023-03-15T14:59:01)
First time reading this as it’s been repeatedly recommended to me as someone curious about the genre. So far, so intriguing… but this line really puzzled me:
…hadn’t even taken a phone. She’d been going to the bathroom!
Who doesn’t take their phone with them to the bathroom?
Kris (2023-03-16T15:01:17)
Nah, it makes sense that you’d fit less people if they were picky about elbow room.
Kris (2023-03-16T15:02:51)
Adding ‘of’ here changes the emphasis significantly.
Aliased (2023-03-19T03:55:36)
“Erin’s forehead wrinkled as she circumnavigated the common room first, checking the tables and chairs for something, anything. All she found was more dust.”
This should probably have just been “circled.” Circumnavigate means to sail or travel around the world, or to avoid an object. It has shades of going around (avoiding) the object you are circumnavigating to its meaning.  Erin isn’t avoiding the common room, she’s touring it.
JoeG (2023-03-30T18:55:41)
Hi, I stumbled onto this story and love it. You should consider putting it on kindle Vella, or out as an ebook. I would pay to have a copy.
Love the premise and writing style. Keep up the great work.
Cimer (2023-04-05T15:50:24)
>  A single room seemed to lead off to another part of the inn
I think you meant “a singledoor”.
infiniplex (2023-05-01T03:25:46)
“The fire-breathing lizard-thing probably didn’t like rain, and it was so wet it’d douse even a forest fire.”
As written, it sounds like the fire-breathing lizard-thing is “so wet it’d douse even a forest fire.”.  It should probably be something like “the evening was so wet…”.
“alright” -> “all right”
Minor continuity:
[Erin enters the inn] “Even the fading evening light wasn’t welcome here.”
…
[Erin cleans the first table] “Then she did another pass until she could see the wood grain beneath, a dark brown now that night was falling”
…
[Erin has cleaned all tables] “And—was it nightfall already?”
It seems odd this surprises Erin.  She has done a lot.
sdofnds (2023-05-19T06:59:58)
Who takes phone to their bathroom in their own home????…. Well maybe there is different culture in your place but here in India, no one would take their phone to bathroom. If someone did take their phone to bathroom than other people would avoid touching their phone if they know about it.
Lion (2023-07-24T07:55:00)
First time reader here…excited to see what all the hype is about. Never read anything like this was described to me as. ?
Salamander (2023-08-09T23:36:54)
Oh shit. I didn’t know this was Isekai. As an Isekai trash man, now I’m even more excited to keep reading.
Saruul (2023-08-22T09:12:47)
LETSGOOOO
Scuba Steve (2023-10-05T04:32:43)
I have brought another reader to the innverse
Dan (2023-11-14T15:49:21)
Dust, the 3rd great enemy of survival :)
Leo (2023-12-26T05:41:50)
Some people do it here; Ethiopia(Africa)
Joshua Gray (2023-12-30T01:42:05)
just started this today I’ve heard a lot of Positive things about this series so i came over here to see what is the fuss is about =)
Jonathan (2024-02-03T00:24:30)
Same here, it’s 2 am and I’ve just finished chapter 1
Ryoka_Fan #1 (2024-02-07T09:15:55)
My greatest pleasure to be reading with all of you, old and new! I hope everyone new here thoroughly enjoys and dissects every part of this story cause god knows how much I have :3
asteriuszenith (2024-03-24T08:26:07)
AAAAAAA I just started reading and oh my god it’s so up to my speed. Kudos to the people who recommended me this series when I asked for something to bingeread.
Missmusicluver (2024-04-22T15:32:20)
My first reread! So genuinely excited to go over it all again. LETS GOO
AnOwlinNeed (2024-04-23T07:07:58)
Its called being chronically addicted
wizerdo37 (2024-06-21T21:33:40)
You surely have a lot of free time to reread this. O.O
Azen (2024-07-26T11:41:37)
Do u have a link to the original? I also want to see what’s different.
Mugi (2024-08-06T22:35:08)
Perfect start.. im already obsessed..
Dan (2024-08-25T04:12:35)
This link should go to the original version.
https://wanderinginn.com/2016/07/27/1-00/
The URL at the top should say 2016 in it somewhere if it is the original.
The rewrite will have 2017 in it.
Just press next page and it keeps going through the old version of volume 1.
DeftlyPlayed (2024-10-28T04:19:22)
Hi. Wondering if there is a way to book mark?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.01
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-01/

The inn was dark. That was because the world was dark, at least for the moment. Two moons hung in the sky, one light blue, the other pale green. But their soft light was obscured by a shifting layer of clouds overhead.
However, despite the late hour, one figure moved restlessly around the room. A young woman. Her progress left a trail in the dust as she walked. She paced from wall to wall, muttering to herself. Then she tripped over a chair.
“Ow.”
Erin brushed dust off her pants and t-shirt in disgust. Well, her clothes were officially filthy now. Parts of her t-shirt were burned black, and her jeans had been cut by the Goblins’ knives. But that wasn’t important at the moment.
“Did I just level up?”
Erin stared up at the ceiling from her fallen position. She could have stood up, but that would have required effort. And besides, Erin was hungry, tired, and confused. Lying on the floor made her feel better. Even if the dust was getting in her hair.
Ordinarily, that would have been disgusting, but at the moment—
“Seriously? I leveled up? What is this, a game?”
Slowly, Erin pulled herself up into a squat. Then she put her head in her hands.
“No. No it can’t be. But a—a Dragon and Goblins and now leveling…this is another world, right? One like Dungeons and Dragons? Or—or a video game?”
She straightened and stood up. The world seemed to be spinning around her. Common sense? Who needed that? Nope. Just hand her a few fire-breathing Dragons and let her level up by cleaning tables. Yeah, that made sense.
“Right, right. Let’s recap. I’m in another world which is actually a video game. And there are monsters in this world, and I can level up by doing stuff. I even get skills, and when I do, a voice in my head—no, more like a thought appears that tells me I’ve accomplished a task.”
She nodded to herself.
“Yep. Makes complete sense…”
Her voice trailed off. Erin’s head lowered and then snapped back up.
“Likehell it does!”
Erin screamed and kicked a chair hard enough to send it flying into the air. The chair landed with a tremendouscrash, which was satisfying to hear. Less satisfying, though, was Erin’s foot, which had hit the chair hard enough to jam every toe.
After screaming in pain and hopping around a bit, Erin sat at one of the tables and cried for a while. It wasn’t that she liked crying or did it a lot (usually). It just helped at the moment.
After about ten minutes of crying, Erin finally started choking back tears. She felt better, but quickly hit upon another problem when she went to wipe away her tears and snot and remembered there wasn’t any tissue paper nearby. So she used the rag.
The wet, disgusting rag. But it was better than her shirt. After that, Erin sat, staring at nothing in particular as the darkness surrounded her.
“I’m tired.”
That was the last thing Erin said before she fell asleep. This time, there were no interruptions.
——
The next day hit Erin in the face. She groaned and sat up, head aching. Her neck felt twisted, and she was sore from lying on the floor. She still would have slept in longer if it weren’t for the sun and her stomach.
Hobbling around, Erin looked at the bright daylight streaming through one window. She shook her fist at the sunny opening in the wall and glared.
“This is why drapes were invented, you know.”
The window did not respond. Erin sighed. She was already talking to objects. Which was fine! She often cursed her invisible opponents when playing chess on the computer. Or talked to the chess pieces. She’d know she was insane if the window started speaking back.
Windows. These ones had no glass or curtains. They were square holes in the wall, but they did have shutters. Too bad Erin had chosen one of the open windows to nap underneath.
Without thinking, Erin’s hands went up to her head and came back covered in dirt and dust. Oh, right. She’d slept on the floor. The dirty floor where all the dust had gone.
Erin sat in a chair and buried her face in her hands. After a little while, her stomach growled louder.
“Got it. Message received.”
Groaning, the young woman eventually stood up. She stood, feeling her body protest the natural law of gravity, and sat down. That felt better, but then her stomach objected. Hunger and exhaustion warred, and hunger won out.
Erin got up, knowing she had to look for food. There wasn’t any in the inn; she hadn’t bothered checking the rest of the cupboards because why should she? Any food that had been around since the inn had been deserted was probably sentient and had legs by now.
So that only left the outside. But Erin hesitated as she put her hand on the door to the inn.
Monsters.
She shivered. The memory of yesterday returned, fresh and vivid, and her hands began to shake. Her burned arm flared in pain as the cuts on her legs itched and stung. Erin closed her eyes and took a breath. Yes, monsters. But—
“I’ll die here if I don’t find something to eat.”
So she opened the door. It wasn’t courage that made her do it, just the will to survive.
The day was so bright that Erin was blinded for a moment. She walked outside, shading her eyes. And then she stopped. Because a thought had struck her suddenly. Something she had realized but not taken to heart before.
“This—really is another world, isn’t it?”
It wasn’t the Goblins that convinced her. Or even the Dragon. You could imagine that, even if the burns and cuts still throbbed. People imagined aliens all the time. But what couldn’t be imagined, or, Erin thought, even faked, was this:
The clouds were too big. Erin Solstice looked up into the sky and realized it wasn’t just the clouds. The sky was too vast.
The sunlight was coming from beyond that incredible mountain range she had seen, and even now it had to fight through clouds surrounding those invisible peaks. The sky was so blue it hurt her soul, the kinds of beautiful colors that made her feel like it was a day to be remembered. Yet up, as she craned her head back, she could see clouds, even tiny, pinwheeling birds she could barely make out.
But the clouds were just too darn big. It wasn’t something Erin could explain, because she knew clouds were already vast. She had spent hours lying on her back, gazing up at the way a single one had so much depth to it, like a floating island in the sky.
These, though…Erin looked at a cloud floating overhead and realized it covered the entire grasslands, the entire basin she stood in, countless miles and the inn in one vast shadow. It was so high overhead she couldn’t understand it. She had seen airplanes flying through the sky, and she was certain that the highest ones she’d ever seen would be flying far below this single cloud.
It was larger than the entire plains. It was larger than the inn, a thousand times, ten thousand—a hundred thousand times over.Erin had visited Chicago, one of America’s biggest cities, and seen it sprawling from both the ground and from planes. You could fit that entire city up there and have more room still.
Erin’s knees shook as she looked up at a cloud the size of an island blowing through the sky. One second the world turned dark and she thought an entire world could be up there, hidden in that beautiful cloud, grey and white blowing across the world.
Then it passed, and the sun shone down on her and warmed her skin, and Erin knew. She looked around and began breathing again.
Another world.
——
Presently, Erin came back down to earth and realized there was some trickery going on on the ground as well as the sky.
For instance, all those hills and valleys? Only now did she realize what an optical illusion they created. From one of the tallest hills, she could finally identify how difficult it would be to see anything from down below.
“It’s all hills and valleys! No wonder I couldn’t find anything last night!”
If you walked carelessly, you could lose track of your surroundings and find yourself in a valley thousands of feet wide. And it was all mostly uniform, only a few flowers and rocks breaking up the tyranny of grass.
However, not green. Erin had to believe it was autumn, here. It had not been inher world—to her knowledge, it should have been around the end of July, or August at the latest. She might have forgotten the day. And month. But the grasslands were not the green she expected—instead, the grass was slowly changing color in places, moving from green to orange and even into purple in places. It was yellow running into dusky red in wavy patterns, like bands of color appearing over the landscape.
It was beautiful and, perhaps, the first thing to make Erin smile in this world. And it was also a landmark.
The plains stretched on and on without pause, which meant that you could easily lose track of where you were. But if she knew that following that band of orange led her close to this inn…
“Just so long as the grass doesn’t change color overnight, I might have a shot. Looks like it goes purple-orange-yellow and runsright next to the inn. So I can follow that back! Follow the purple-orange-yellow grass road!”
She laughed with relief. No fear of forgetting that particular pattern of colors, either. There were very similar swathes all around her, but she had a good memory. That was to say, she’d forget what day it was and if she was wearing socks, but she didn’t forget what really mattered. Like chess moves. Or this, she hoped.
Then Erin realized she could see something else from her vantage point.
Erin stopped as she started to pick out small details on the horizon. Far, far in the distance between the mountain range and the rising sun, she saw what looked vaguely like buildings. No, a wall of stone? Was there a town out there? Or a village? A…city?
It was impossible to tell from where she was standing, but the sight of that gave Erin hope that she wasn’t alone in this world. However, just the thought of travelling that far on her empty stomach was impossible, so she kept looking. The next thing that caught her eye made her heart pound with excitement.
“Are those…trees?”
Erin squinted. There was a small collection of trees in the distance, nestled in one of the valleys. They were trees, weren’t they? Erin felt they looked off—until she realized she was lookingdown at them from her vantage point.
It was surreal to feel herself looking down on a forest, but that was the only answer she could think of. It looked like there was a small—well, relatively speaking—valley to the east filled with trees. It didn’t seem too far away, and if Erin looked closely, she could see small specks of yellow and blue on the trees. Fruit?
There was only one way to find out. And so she began to walk in that direction, her legs and stomach overriding her cautious brain. She needed food. It wasn’t hard to walk down the gently sloping hills, and although it was less fun to walk back up the hills, at least Erin could do all of it at a meandering walk. The grass was soft under her shoes, and she had good footing. It was…peaceful. Deceptively peaceful.
In the back of her mind, Erin remembered the Goblins. Okay, maybe they weren’t Goblins, but what else could they be? They were strange, deformed children that looked like twisted versions of Humans with sharp noses, sharp teeth, little knives, and—
Goblins. And Erin remembered that they’d found her as she was running, singed and bewildered, from the Dragon.
She almost turned around, but she needed food. If worse came to worst, Erin reasoned that she could grab some of the fruit things and run back to the inn.
That was the plan. It was the plan right up until Erin found herself walking by a huge rock.
There was nothing too important about the rock, except that it was more like a boulder, a gigantic mound of stone rounded at the top like a small hill. It was twice as tall as a normal person and just as long across. In short, it was a big rock.
However, if Erin had thought about it, she might have wondered why a giant rock was righthere. Suspiciously free of any other small stones and far less craggy and worn down than she might expect. Moss did cling to it in parts, but it was oddly free of any lichen near the base. But she didn’t think about such small details.
Erin ignored the rock completely, only stopping to wonder if it would provide her an even better vantage point to see around her if she climbed up. But she was hungry, so she walked right past it. It was that which saved her.
As she put the large boulder behind her, Erin felt thewhoosh of air and a terrifyingly loud crack right next to her ear. She jumped, turned around, and screamed. She dove forwards as the second pincer nearly took her head clean off.
The thing that had been hiding underneath the rock lifted it up off the ground and scurried after Erin as she sprinted away. She spared only one glance over her shoulder, but that was enough. She ran even faster.
Two large, long pincers made out of a dark brown chitin were poking out from beneath the rock as the crab-monster scuttled towards her. It had lifted the gigantic, hollow shell enough so that Erin could see countless tiny crab legs tearing up the earth as it propelled itself along the ground.
It was a crab, but it was allwrong. Two long, curved eye-stalks had appeared—and the giant pincers snapping and trying to tear her to bits. Oh—and it was also taller than a school bus, if not as wide.
Erin didn’t scream as she ran. She couldn’t waste her breath. All the air in her body was devoted to keeping herrunning as fast as she could as she charged downhill.
Something huge missed Erin’s back, but she felt the wind as it passed by. She sped up even faster, but it sounded like it was right behind her. The giant crab was making a sound as it ran after her too, a loudclicking that sounded like gunshots going off next to Erin’s head.
So she ran faster. She thought she would be dead every next second, but she realized that the loud sounds of pursuit were dying down. Eventually, the clicking stopped, and Erin realized she couldn’t hear anything behind her. She stopped and turned to see a rock with many legs slowly moving back across the plains.
“What the…holy…crab?”
Erin could only gasp and clutch at her side. She felt like her legs were about to fall off and her lungs were about to burst. She was also lightheaded, but she really didn’t want to sit down.
Instead, she forced herself to keep walking. It hurt. Everything hurt. But she was still alive, crabs or no crabs.
Erin tried to smile. Her legs ached, but eventually, she got her breathing back under control. And even better, she was at her destination.
“Is—is that a tree?”
Erin gaped up at the strange plants before her. They were probably trees. They had bark, leaves, and fruit. But in each aspect, they were slightly—off.
The tree in front of her was thin beyond belief. It was about ten feet tall, which wasn’t very high for a tree, but the trunk was thinner than she was! And the branches were as thin as Erin’s arms and tapered off to fine points that still held leaves and, apparently, didn’t snap in the wind.
The leaves were huge, too. Big, green leaves closer to palm leaves than ones Erin might expect. However, they had that classic leaf shape, not like a maple, and they seemed thick.
Given such trees, Erin would have expected to find a bunch of branches from the decent breeze and rainfall of last night. She was used to seeing downed branches from trees in her neighborhood after big rainstorms, but to her vague surprise, she saw almost no leaves on the ground, or branches. Or fruit.
“Weird. Grey bark, green leaves, blue fruit. Who dropped the paint bucket on this thing? And why is it so…tough?”
She had gone to snap off a low-hanging branch but found that she could barely bend the thin branch, even when she held on with all her weight.
The trees were as strong as could be! What interested Erin more than the aesthetics was the edibility of the fruit. And the reachability.
Most of the blue fruits on each of the trees were clustered around the top branches. There were yellow fruits lower down, but since they were smaller, they were probably also unripe. Hesitantly, Erin grabbed a branch, and after testing her weight on it a few times, tried to pull herself up.
“I—hate—pull-ups!”
Her arms shook as she strained to get off the ground. After a few seconds, Erin got her chin above the branch, but no further. After another second, she had to let go.
Erin landed on the ground and stared up at the tantalizing blue fruits, just out of reach. If she weren’t so hungry and tired…she’d still probably never get up that high.
“Is this how I die? Starving to death because I can’t do a pull-up?”
No. That was stupid. But the more Erin thought about it…
“No. No!”
Erin jumped and managed to pull herself halfway up the first branch through sheer desperation. But her arms gave out, and she fell on her back with awhumph that knocked the air out of her.
“You…stupid tree!”
Erin’s shouts of frustration echoed in the small valley. She tried to grab the branch again, but she couldn’t even pull herself up anymore. She screamed in frustration, grabbed at her dirty hair, and then kicked the tree.
The entire tree shook slightly with the force of Erin’s kick. The leaves trembled, and the blue fruits moved—
And one fell to the ground.
Erin stared at the round, slightly fuzzy blue fruit. Then she looked up at the tree. Without a word, she grabbed the fruit. Then she looked around expectantly.
“Um, shouldn’t there be some kind of announcement?”
No response. Erin kicked the tree again and picked up another fruit.
“[Mysterious Blue Fruit acquired!] Dun dun dundun!”
After a little bit, Erin put her head in her hands to cover her blush.
“…I hate this world.”
——
He woke up with a scream, which was hugely embarrassing. When he would inevitably meet his end, the Dragon had resolved himself to go out with dignity befitting his nature.
He’d even come up with a speech (then forgotten where he’d put it). Screaming in front of the adventurer or hero was not how he wanted to die.
But he couldn’t help it. The sight of someone appearing in front of him? For a second, he’d opened his eyes and thought he was dreaming or…remembering.
Then the Dragon had realized the young woman was indeedreal, and she had entered his cave without setting off any of the hundreds—literal hundreds—of protective spells supposed to warn him or buy him a moment’s time.
Of course, in the next moment, hundreds of alarms had begun blaring in his ears that his lair wascompromised and he was about to die.
So yes, he’d screamed. Maybe exhaled a bit of flame in shock; if he’d been truly in control of his faculties, the first thing he would have done would be to blow pure Dragonfire at any intruder in the vague hope it would work.
It often did. However, in this case, it had been more like…an exhalation of the noblest of gasses in surprise. A tiny tongue of flame which obviously hadn’t been aimed at the young woman as he tried to crawl to safety and fly at the same time, while also activating his emergency teleportation spell. Then he’d crashed into a wall, and by the time he picked himself up, she was gone.
An advance scout? Possibly a sacrificial decoy. The Dragon knew he was dead in moments if his foes were cunning.
Who was it? That Necromancer? One of his kin? [Knights]? A random [Hero]?
He had no idea. But the Dragon hadn’t wasted time figuring it out. He’d activated his teleport spell and been gone from his lair in moments.
At least he’d remembered that. His backup location was far less convenient and arguably far more dangerous—for most people. But as his wealth, his hoard of treasures showered down around him, the Dragon looked around and realized he wasn’t being pursued.
Not that he didn’t spend the next two days checking every magical channel and re-fortifying his new cave. He didn’t get a wink of sleep. Worse,she picked up his contingency [Message] and sent him a dozen questions by spell, asking if he were alright and what had happened.
“Just a coincidence? An accident? I don’t know, and I didn’t get anything to latch onto. Whomever it is, they’re gone. I—I shall be watchful.”
The Dragon snapped back and continued checking for signs of pursuit. But when none were apparent, even two weeks later, he had to then wonder if ithad been an accident.
An accident that carried someone into his cave? Maybe some magical…disturbance at the Academy? There were stranger things that had happened. When he replayed his memories, she seemed as surprised as he.
Naturally, he didn’t put anything to chance and continued fortifying and getting accustomed to his new hideout. He hated the location, the neighbors, and the complications for anyone visiting, but it might be safer.
“At least, from strange young women appearing out of nowhere. Shehad to have been the subject of—of some chance. Maybe a [Gambler] or whatnot. Otherwise, I would be either dead or have been contacted by whomever it was. It cannot be Demons; they’re far too unsubtle. Who else? If it was the Quarass, I’d be dead. Djinni smell of magic. And that leaves…my kin, who wouldn’t do that.”
His brow wrinkled as he tried to figure it out. He truly had no idea. Well, he would keep checking, and if he didn’t sense any pursuit, he might put it down to the random causality of events.
Besides, he realized that there was one small, small silver lining to this entire debacle. The intrusion into his lair had woken him up, and he feared he wouldn’t sleep for anotheryear. But until he did, he could do some housekeeping.
Glumly, the Dragon consulted his notes.
“That time again? Two hundred years already? I might as well. It’s courteous.”
He made a huge face and yawned. Distastefully, but there was such a thing as manners. Sullenly, he reached out to the nearest city he could find and made a few arrangements. Then he settled back.
He was already dozing by the end of the third day. He was tired. And such obligations as he had left in life? There were very few. The only thing he had left was pride. Pride, waiting for the last young woman or whomever it was to appear. He had a speech…somewhere…
And a few social obligations to uphold. That was all. The Dragon slept once more.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:24:09)
Leave a comment below for typos!
Zineb (2023-03-05T11:59:12)
It’s so much better ! Love how you explained inconsistencies (the location of the Dragon’s cave…) and build up the fact that Erin loves chess.
Tharindu prasad (2023-03-08T10:59:26)
Soo good! ?
wizerdo37 (2023-03-08T16:24:52)
it was interesting to see the girl Erin looking for food and running from the killer crab, plus that dragon looks pretty nervous about being almost “killed” haha, and who was the woman the dragon was exchanging messages with? hmm.
let’s see…
COALA (2023-03-09T13:17:50)
I have long wondered about Erin’s initial encounter. Great reading Teriarch pondering likely culprits, now knowing they won’t appear for a half dozen books.
wizerdo37 (2023-03-10T14:08:15)
i think this is Spoiler? how is Teriarch?
wizerdo37 (2023-03-10T15:55:00)
who*
Laurie (2023-03-15T18:36:51)
Pirateaba, I can so easily see the inn and its surroundings now. This pulls me deeper into the story. Bravo. Well done ???????
Khaim (2023-04-17T19:07:47)
I’d barely call it a spoiler, but yes, Teriarch is the dragon. He appears later.
meowy (2023-05-20T05:12:19)
“However, they had that classic leaf shape, not like a maple, and they seemed thick.” -> I think this is supposed to be “not unlike a maple”.
ChronoMager (2023-05-21T14:29:09)
They were strange, deformed children that looked like twisted versions of Humans with sharp noses, sharp teeth, little knives, and—
Not a typo per se, but it’s odd to see Erin starting off thinking of “Humans” with capital H. It might work better to get her to start thinking that way after encountering other thinking species .. who are not trying to kill her.
goblinsstolemybrain (2023-10-27T14:05:02)
I’m new to the Wandering Inn and I’m absolutely loving it so far!
asteriuszenith (2024-03-24T09:34:38)
DRAGON POV?! I am….. Intrigued ????
Also, I love that you really REALLY double down on the fact that “no, this is absolutely a new world for Erin.” With all the things that she’s observing. The sky, the clouds, the trees, the plains, and even the time, it’s interesting.
But also, Erin has some difficulty remembering what month it is huh ? so does that mean that she doesn’t go out of her house? Or that she’s basically shut off from the entire world if she doesn’t even remember what month it was.
AnOwlinNeed (2025-12-05T08:21:06)
Erin’s knees shook as she looked up at a cloud the size of an island blowing through the sky. One second the world turned dark and she thought an entire world could be up there, hidden in that beautiful cloud, grey and white blowing across the world.
This bit? Hmm. Mhmmm. Yeah. What an impressive visual this is. *Chef’s kiss*

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.02
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-02/

The fruit in her hands was blue, probably a fruit, and pretty large. Erin had seen monster apples before in stores, the weirdly expensive ones that were three times as big as their smaller cousins. That was about the size of the blue fruit.
Her stomach rumbled just looking at it. Erin raised the fruit to her mouth, then hesitated.
“…Am I going to die?”
It was a good question. Erin studied the fruit in her hand. She sniffed it cautiously. It smelled faintly…sweet. She poked it. Tender. Probably succulent. Then she licked the outside.
“Pheh! Hairy!”
Maybe it would be better to peel it after all. Maybe it was actually some kind of alien monster she was holding, and if she bit it, she’d be eating a mouthful of guts and blood. That thought made Erin hesitate for a few moments before she started peeling it away.
“It’s like a peach. Not a monster, not a monster…”
Erin peeled off the outer layer of blue fruit and found the inside of the fruit was a purplish-blue. The juice ran to the ground and smelled…Erin’s stomach grumbled, but she’d found something else that caught her attention.
“That is the biggest seed I’ve ever seen. There’s more seed here than fruit!”
Erin held up the core of the blue fruit, which was indeed a seed core two-thirds the size of the blue fruit itself. The shell was a stained purple-brown, but Erin felt something sloshing about inside when she shook it.
“Okay, time to see what’s inside.”
She’d need a rock for that. Erin transferred the seed core to her other hand and stood up. As she did, she squeezed the core gently.
Crack. Crack.
Fragile. The brown shell split open and disgorged a mess of pulpy seeds and brown juice onto Erin’s pants and the ground. She stared at the mess in silence until the pungent odor hit her nose—an incredibly powerful chemical smell similar to antifreeze or some kind of cleaning product.
Slowly, Erin stood up and brushed the seed vomit off her clothes. That did nothing to get rid of the smell, though. Then she picked up the pieces of the seed’s core and hurled them as hard as she could against one of the trees.
“Ihate this world!”
——
After a while, her stomach began to growl again as the smell from the seed pod dissipated in the morning air. Hesitantly, Erin grabbed the second blue fruit and brought it to her lips. She had taken care to not get any of the seed pod’s innards on her hands, and she wasn’t about to eat the first fruit.
She didn’t know much about herb lore or good fruits or bad ones, but just the smell of the seed core’s innards had convinced Erin it was unwise to try. The actual fruit on the other hand…
This time, she bit into the outer skin and chewed. The texture was unpleasantly rubbery and tough to chew, but thankfully it was edible. And what was more—
The pure, sugary taste that rushed into Erin’s mouth put her in mind of blueberries. Only—the blue fruit was a bit tougher, so maybe a strawberry? A strawberry that someone sprinkled sugar on and had the taste of blueberries. In short—
“Wow. This tastes really good!”
That was the remark Erin made after she’d consumed eight more of the blue fruits, all in rapid succession. The seed pods she left untouched on the ground, but she happily devoured the outer rinds, stripping an entire tree clean before she was finally full.
Groaning with satisfaction, she sat back against the tree. She felt good. Sticky and smelly, true, but good. The day was fair and warm, and with her stomach full and the soft grass beneath her, there was only one thought on her mind.
Bathroom.
Maybe it was something in the fruits that triggered it, or maybe it was just long overdue. Either way, Erin was suddenly, keenly aware of a certain need pressing at her. Erin sighed and stood back up.
“Nature calls. I hate nature.”
She walked behind the nearest tree and then around it. There wasn’t much…cover here, but she really had to go.
“Well, what am I hiding from anyways?”
Erin thought about that for a moment then deliberately edged around the trunk until the sun was out of view. That made her feel better.
A few seconds later, Erin felt refreshed and happy. Her stomach was full, other parts were empty, and best yet, she was alive.
“Now, how am I going to get back past that crab rock-monster?”
Erin’s stomach twisted unpleasantly at the thought, and her heart began to pound in her chest. But an idea struck her as she looked at the countless seed pods on the ground.
——
The large, duplicitous rock seemed more and more out of place the more Erin looked at it. If she’d been able to think past her hunger before, she’d have wondered how such a large stone made it all the way to the grasslands without being eroded by the elements. Well, that stupid crab-creature was clearly one of the predators in this world.
And it was quick. Erin didn’t want to run away again, so shereally hoped this plan of hers would work. Did crabs have noses? Probably not, but she really hoped they could still smell.
Slowly, Erin walked forward. The rock remained motionless. Well, that was fine.
Erin picked up a small stone and hurled it at the rock. It bounced off.
She waited. The rock didn’t shift so much as an inch.
Erin picked up another, larger stone and threw it against the rock. She wasn’t a good shot, so the rock glanced off the side. Again, there was no response.
“Uh, is…is this the right rock?”
Erin looked around. No other suspicious large rocks in sight. But it wasn’t doing anything.
“Get closer…no, that’s stupid.”
She eyed the rock again. Well, if it wasn’t going to move…
Erin turned away. She’d circle around.Far around. She began walking away.
Click.
It was such a small sound. But it made her freeze and then whirl around.
Erin caught the rock crab crawling towards her stealthily. In just a few seconds, it had covered nearly twenty feet. She stared in horror as it reared upwards.
Clickclickclickclickclickclickclick—
The rock crab began its high-speed shuffle towards her. Two enormous claws and a pair of dark eyes curled up from underneath the rock again.
Erin stepped back, half-turned to run, and remembered what was in her other hand. She took swift aim and threw the seed pod she had been holding.
Bullseye. The seed core smacked the rock crab right on the antenna and burst into a shower of pulpy liquid. Even at this range, Erin could smell the toxic odors on the breeze.
If she were honest, Erin didn’t know what she expected. Pain or shock from the rock crab, maybe. She’d nailed it pretty good on the antenna, and she was sure that had to hurt. But still, it wasn’t as if the seed cores were that heavy. She expected the crab to recoil and maybe get scared off by the scent at best.
What shedidn’t expect was for the crab to freak out and start smashing itself with one of its claws. It was panicking, frantically scraping away at the spot she’d struck with the seed core, ignoring the damage it was doing to its own antenna. At the same time, the rock crab was making distressed sounds.
It sounded like the loudest cricket in the world, only a lot deeper and echoing out from beneath the rocky shell the crab was wearing. That was enough to make Erin back up until she was back among the trees and the crab was barely visible.
Even after she’d gone a ways away, she could still see the crab doing an unhappy dance as it tried to scrape off the seed pod fragments.
“Huh.”
Erin scratched her head.
“Well, it’s good to know they hate fruit.”
Speaking of which…Erin decided to get more of the delicious blue fruits. As many as she could carry, in fact. Blue was now the color of breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and she only wished she had more hands. Could she make a basket somehow…? Out of grass?
She kicked at a tuft of the stuff.
“…That’s a stupid idea.”
How about her shirt then, or pants? But that was a bit…well, there was no one around to see her except the rock crabs, right? Even so.
“Too bad I’m not a streaker, huh?”
Erin addressed that comment to a nearby patch of grass. The grass said nothing in reply.
With a sigh, Erin walked away. She slowly crested a small hill and found herself looking down on the fruit orchard once more.
She also found herself looking at several short, green creatures that had appeared in her absence. They were kicking trees and harvesting the blue fruits that fell to the ground.
They were instantly familiar to her, of course, but the transfixed Human got a good look at them again. They were short, four feet tall at most, possibly even shorter. Almost like children, although their heads were too big.
That was because of all the teeth. But they wore ragged loincloths and were grunting and poking one another. Erin saw pointed ears, scabs from some healing wounds, and as one glanced up and saw her and froze—she saw two crimson, glowing eyes.
For a few seconds, they didn’t see her. Then one of them looked up and saw the slack-jawed Human staring their way. He made a shrill noise, and the others looked around.
“G-goblins?”
The nearest creature took a step towards her. He looked harmless. For a moment. Then he bared his incredibly sharp teeth and drew a knife. His friends did likewise. They advanced on the young woman.
The young woman, for her part, stared in horror for two more seconds and then pointed one finger. She opened her mouth and screamed.
“Gobliiiiiiiiins!”
The green-skinned monsters stopped and stared as the young woman screamed and took off, running at top speed. But they followed her doggedly despite the insane speed at which she sprinted. These Goblins had learned to hunt other species and knew that Humans panicked easily and grew tired. They’d catch her as soon as she slowed down.
…Assuming she ever slowed down.
——
It was evening. The sun cast long shadows across the plains. All was silent. Aside from the screaming rock crab smashing itself in the head and the screaming Human, there was no sound in the world.
All was calm.
A single figure sprinted across the grasslands. She was running as fast as she could. Behind her, a group of squat creatures followed. It was nearly dinnertime.
Erin Solstice, aged 20. A young woman from Grand Rapids, Michigan, with a casual interest in video games and a deep obsession with strategy games. Her hobbies include snow tubing, watching YouTube videos, playing chess, shogi, go, etc. She dreams of one day becoming a professional board game commentator.
Currently—
Running for her life.
Again.
——
Erin found a stream running down a hill a few hundred feet away from the inn. Its position and relative size meant it was the perfect place for her to gather water or even wash herself should the need arise. All things considered, it was an idyllic windfall of a discovery.
She took three steps, leapt, cleared the stream in one jump, and hit the ground running. The stream kept flowing as she left it rapidly behind. Not once did Erin look back, although her throat was burning.
She was still being chased.
By Goblins. They swarmed after her, wading through the stream despite the strong current. And though they were small, their bodies were wiry and their dirty arms muscled. And they all carried weapons.
Generally, they wore daggers or short swords, but Erin had spotted what looked like a meat cleaver on one of them. She was too busy running to get a good look, but if they were like the ones she had met yesterday, the weapons were rusty, stained with dried blood and crusty substances, and sharp.
That, combined with the Goblins’ faces, made them terrifying. Normal Goblins were supposed to look ugly, but not dangerous. In video games, Erin had always seen them depicted as short, man-like creatures with beaky noses, pointed ears, and ugly faces. But these Goblins…
Pointy ears? Check.
Ugly face? Check.
Their noses weren’t too pointed, but they were definitely carrots compared to potatoes as noses went. But what really scared Erin were their teeth.
They had two rows of teeth. Like sharks. They had blood red eyes, like monsters in nightmares. Glowing red eyes. And they screamed as they chased her.
It didn’t sound like normal screaming. Erin was used to hearing screams, but they only came out of Humans. The sound the Goblins made wasn’t a continuous sound but a kind of ululating noise that seemed to grow louder the longer they yelled.
Yiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyi—
It made Erin break out into a cold sweat, and she pumped her legs even faster to charge up the hill. She was in one of the valleys, but she knew she was headed straight for the inn. She just had to get there and, and—
That’s where they’d kill her. Erin would get to the inn, and they’d surround it, break in somehow, and tear her to shreds. But what other choice did she have? None. She couldn’t run forever.
Already, Erin felt like someone was twisting a knife into her side, and she was gasping for air. She was no athlete. The only reason she was still ahead of the Goblins by a good bit was because they were short. She also guessed they were letting her use up all her energy before closing in for the kill.
Erin crested the hill, stumbled, caught herself, and saw the inn’s dark brown walls only a hundred feet away. She dashed towards it, throwing all of her energy into a desperate sprint.
The Goblins’ voices had faded a bit by the time she burst through the inn’s doorway and slammed it shut. But she knew they were only minutes away at best, so Erin stood up despite the agony in her chest and legs.
The door had a metal bar that could be slid to prevent it from being opened. Erin did that and then looked around. Windows. The common room had so manywindows.
“Oh, you’ve got to be—”
She didn’t waste time on the rest of her sentence. Erin dashed over to one window and slammed the wooden shutters closed. Then she fumbled with the latch. It was a cheap bit of metal, but it might buy her a few seconds.
Erin sped around the room, fighting to close the windows as the Goblins’ shouting grew louder and louder. She slammed shut the last window and let out a huge sigh of relief. Then she remembered that the inn had a second floor.
The mysterious darkness of the second floor that had terrified Erin the night before didn’t even slow her steps as she dashed up the stairs. She ran in and out of each room as fast as she could, closing windows. While some of the mantles had succumbed to the rot, all of the shutters were mostly intact. She’d hear if they were being smashed in, at least.
Erin ran into the room at the end of the corridor and stopped when she saw the skeleton in the last bed. But even that didn’t slow her much, and she closed the windows just in time to hear the Goblins start pounding on the door downstairs.
They didn’t get in that way. But as Erin sped down the stairs, she heard one of the shutters break. And then another.
The first Goblin squeezed through a window as Erin stood petrified. The second and third were right behind him.
Erin backed up. The first Goblin came at her as his fellows spread out behind him. There were five—no, seven of them.
Her legs were shaking. Erin tried to turn over a table, but the Goblin was too quick. He lunged forward, and she fell backwards with a small scream. He laughed and jumped for her, knife swinging.
Erin rolled backwards and felt a stinging cut on her leg. She scrambled to her feet and looked down.
Blood. It ran down her leg from the cut in two wavy lines. She looked back at the Goblin and saw his grinning face.
It was a similar grin. Or smile. Or expression, really. But to Erin, it was the same face. The same as a Human’s. Mocking. Confident. The kind of face young men—
He licked at the blood on his knife. Erin’s face froze. The fear that had been bubbling inside her turned in an instant to anger. The Goblin didn’t notice and ran for her, still grinning.
Erin’s leg shot up. She didn’t kick. It was just a lightning-fast shot right between the legs. She could have sworn she heard somethingcrunch.
The Goblin’s face, which had been so full of malicious glee, froze up. He turned pale, made a high-pitched keening sound, and toppled over.
The other Goblins stared in shock at their friend. Erin stared in shock too, but had the presence of mind to grab a chair before they could react. She raised it threateningly.
“Well? Come on!”
Erin swung the chair like a club. The Goblins ducked underneath it and advanced on her, swinging low.
A lucky blade slashed Erin’s leg, and she cried out in pain. Instantly, she brought the chair up and over her head and smashed the Goblin flat.
In movies, the chair would break off, leaving Erin with the stumps in her hands. In reality, the impact made her hands sting, but the chair didn’t so much as creak. The Goblin, on the other hand, screamed a lot.
His fellows backed up as Erin held the chair up for another swing. Her leg was bleeding badly from the cut, but she was more mad than scared at this point. Plus, she had a chair. All they had were knives.
In fact, she had more than one chair.
“Eat this!”
Erin tossed the chair at one Goblin and clipped him on the head as he ducked. He fell down too, and meanwhile, Erin had grabbed another chair. She used it like a shield, jabbing the legs at the nearest Goblin and forcing him back.
Faced with an unexpected threat, the others split up and tried to circle around Erin. Accordingly, she tried not to let them. But even if they were surprisingly fragile, they were quick and hard to hit. Before long, the remaining four Goblins were all around Erin, peering under tables, feinting at her from behind unheld chairs.
“Get back!”
Erin tossed her chair again and, again, missed. But as the Goblins ducked, she turned around and fled for the stairs. She had longer legs, but they were quick too and surged after her as she jumped up the stairs two at a time.
The fastest Goblin was hot on her heels, cackling with that strange laughter as he swiped at the back of her legs. Erin ignored the bleeding and hit the top of the stairs with the Goblin right behind her. He laughed evilly.
And stopped when he realized it was just him and the Human female at the top of the stairs. He looked up. Thebig Human female made a fist.
——
The fourth Goblin crashed down the stairs, face a bloody mess. The remaining three Goblins looked up at the young woman standing above them and hesitated. But she was prey. Prey didn’t fight back!
One threw a knife. It hit Erin in the stomach point first, but the toss was so weak it barely penetrated her skin. She ignored it and leapt down the stairs.
Two hands on the handrail let Erin swing her legs up. She was no gymnast, but rage gave her a moment of athletic inspiration. Both her feet crashed into the face of the knife-throwing Goblin.
He screamed and clutched at his broken, bleeding nose. His two friends ran back as Erin landed on the ground. The bleeding Goblin waved his knife at Erin. She slapped him.
Crack.It was a good slap, the kind that made Erin’s hand go numb. The Goblin fell down, stunned, and his hand let go of his knife.
Erin stared at it. Then, before the other two Goblins could move, she grabbed it. And when she stood up, she had a very different expression on her face.
The remaining Goblins looked at her. They weren’t just two, not really. Their friends hadn’t been knocked out, just hurt. Already, they were getting up while clutching their bruised heads and bodies. However…
The Human female was facing them, knife in hand. She didn’t look as frightened as she had been before. In fact, she looked quite angry. That wasn’t good. She seemed suddenly bigger, and the Goblins were keenly aware that she had just beaten two-thirds of their number in a matter of seconds.
And she had a knife.
The Goblins stared at Erin. She stared back. Now they were all awake and upright, but they didn’t seem to be about to attack. In fact, they seemed sort of nervous.
Erin stared at them. They stared at her. Her eyes began to water, but she didn’t dare blink. But she had to do something, right?
“Boo!”
The Goblins shrieked and ran. They crashed out of the broken windows and ran as if pursued by demons.
Erin stayed where she was for quite some time, hands still half-raised. Eventually, she lowered them.
She wanted to scratch her head, but nearly stabbed her eye out with a knife. Carefully, Erin put the knife on a table and then sat in the nearest chair. Her legs had lost all strength.
“Ha. Haha.”
Erin coughed and then chuckled again.
“Hahaha.”
Her chest hurt. Her arms hurt. Her legs hurt. Actually, her entire body hurt. She felt like she was dying. But.
“I can’t even laugh properly right now. Hahahahahaha…ha?”
And then she did laugh. She started laughing as she sat with her back against the table, bleeding onto the inn’s dirty floor. She laughed and laughed until tears were in her eyes. And as she closed her eyes, she smiled. Then she bumped her cuts and stopped smiling. But she still slept.
[Innkeeper Level 4!]
“…Hey. What happened to levels 2 and 3?”
——
The last of the Goblin warriors fled the fearsome Human in a rush. It had only been seven of them in total, hardly an actual raiding group even for their tiny tribe.
Even so—seven Goblins versus one Human without a weapon? Theyshould have killed her. That they hadn’t was bad.
Bad for many reasons that even the littlest Goblin, crouched and watching the inn from afar, could understand. She and two others were so small and young that they weren’t even warriors; her weapon was a basket, and it had been full of blue fruits until the chase.
Deadly, dangerous blue fruits that could kill you foaming-mouth-dead. But they were so hungry, the Goblins would take that risk. They were so hungry, eating Human sounded good.
And now they were hungry, hurt, and embarrassed. The Goblins snarled as they limped away. They didn’t talk to the littlest Goblin, just grunted and pointed and made the smaller ones get their baskets and go back for actual food they could take back to the tribe.
The little Goblin ducked a swat from one holding his crotch and fled. She didn’t know the name of Injured Crotch, but that was now his nickname in her mind. Goblins didn’t have names. Only their [Chieftain] had any real title, and he was scariest of all.
The seven Goblin warriors were so irate at their loss they jabbed the smaller Goblins tohurry up until they got back to the trees. Then they sat down, tried to rub dirt or spit onto their injuries, and pointed with huge growls at the trees.
The little Goblins had to kick the trees and collect the fruits. The smallest one was so hungry she took a bite from the sweet blue fruit and got hit again by one of the older Goblins. He snarled. She wasn’t allowed to eat here! He kicked the blue fruit away savagely and gestured emphatically to hurry up.
The Goblin warriors were looking around—nervously. The giant thing that hid under rocks might come back. Or something else seeking to kill Goblins. Which might be…anything.
The little Goblinsniffed as she covered her head, but grabbed as many ripe fruits as she could. Then she had to run with the basket back to their tribe.
Their tribe was a lot of Goblins in a cave. It was small, so narrow you had to roll under a rocky opening and crawl forwards until it grew tall enough to stand.
There was no light here except a few cracks in the ceilings, but the little Goblin could still see just fine. It was wet here after all the rain, and it smelled of poo.
But it was safe from big monsters and other things. Even if the [Chieftain] sometimes got stuck going in and out, this place was far safer than outside.
The little Goblin had no idea when the tribe had gotten here. Nor why they were here. She was only…young. No one explained things to her. The older Goblins mostly hit her and made her do things. That was how they were taught, but the little Goblin thought she was seven sticks, three rocks, and two leaves old.
She’d been counting. But she didn’t know numbers above ten. The only Goblin so wise, who could even speak words andread them, was the [Chieftain].
He was mad again. He sat, twice as big as any other Goblin, snarling at anyone around him while he waited for a smoky fire to warm a bit of food. The littlest Goblin’s stomach growled as she saw it.
A dead deer.The [Chieftain] had found food! All the Goblins were watching hungrily, but the [Chieftain] would eat first. Then, the little Goblin hoped, there would be at least bones, but possibly some hot meat.
The fruits were placed next to the deer carcass, but the [Chieftain] snarled and kicked the fruits away. The Goblins were made to take themaway from the precious meat and remove the little bad things.
The small Goblin had no idea why, only that it was bad. Bad-death. She wished…someone would explain. But only the [Chieftain] knew.
He had taught them numbers. So he could tell them to get ten blue fruits each. Learning to count was amazing. The little Goblin had counted teeth, flies, Goblins—until the [Chieftain] kicked dirt at her.
But then she’d been counting days she’d been awake and realized she didn’t have more than ten, and she had been awake more than ten days, right?
It had been a big puzzle. So, to forget her hungry, rumbling stomach, the littlest Goblin with no name sat in her sleeping spot and looked at her big idea.
She counted one thing with leaves. Then, when she had ten leaves…she put down a rock instead. And that meantten leaves. And if she had ten rocks, that meant it was now a stick. Paradoxically, she had decided grass was bigger than a stick by ten again, even though blades of grass were smaller in size than sticks. Otherwise she’d lose track of all the itty bitty pieces of grass that could get blown around. She had not needed a piece of grass yet, but she was looking forwards to getting a nice purple stem to count with.
That was how she thought she’d seen seven sticks, three rocks, and two leaves of sun. She’d counted backwards to figure that out, but she thought it made sense. The rains had been falling a lot when she was born, and they fell regularly. At least—they had twice already, after it got really cold.
The cold. The little Goblin shivered. That would be a bad time. It was wet now, but it could get wetter. And she was hungry. She looked back and saw that the tribe was eating. She sprang up and ran forwards, but there were only scraps already, and so she had only a single mouthful of bloody meat and half a fruit.
This was the little Goblin’s life. She sat, listening to her [Chieftain] growling, an echo of her tummy. She curled up as he demanded to know why his warriors were hurt.
They didn’t tell him. And the other Goblins didn’t either because the [Chieftain] would be very mad to know they’d let a single Human live. So he just hit them and made them look for more things to eat.
The little Goblin sat there and watched the [Chieftain] out of the corner of her eye. He sat there, a scowl on his face. Angry. Always angry. But the other Goblins were like that. Angry. Or they woke up and slept and ate.
She didn’t know why, but they were missing something. When, rarely, they stole something very nice like the colorful water, the [Chieftain] would get happy and then angrier still, or quiet. And he would do what no other Goblin did and talk. And he would say there should be more Goblins. A bigger cave. And the Goblins would listen to him until he scattered them with a fist or one of his great weapons, an axe made out of bone.
He spoke for the first time in two rocks and one grass as the little Goblin listened. Two words. The [Chieftain] looked around and growled as he wiped blood and spat fur from his mouth.
“Need [Shaman].”
But what that was, the little Goblin had no idea. And he said nothing more, so she went back to counting the steps to the blue fruit trees with her grass and rocks. She thought of the strange Human in the big wooden thing. And she wondered if that meant anything different would happen.
Less blue fruits to eat, probably.
Amentus Fruit (Blue Fruit) Trees by Enuryn
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:24:16)
Leave a comment below for typos!
Dfan (2023-03-07T06:16:07)
Loving the new perspective
DEVIN (2023-03-09T23:16:37)
Woo more backstory on the little goblin
Dan (2023-03-10T04:02:44)
“He spoke for the first time in two rocks and one grass as the little Goblin listened.”
I think “grass” should be “leaf”.
juppie (2023-03-10T22:04:40)
What dan said:
He spoke for the first time in two rocks and one grass
–>
He spoke for the first time in two rocks and one leave
Because from an earlier section:
She counted one thing with leaves. Then, when she had ten leaves…she put down a rock instead. And that meant ten leaves. And if she had ten rocks, that meant it was now a stick. Paradoxically, she had decided grass was bigger than a stick by ten again
leave=1, rock=10, stick=100, grass=1000
wizerdo37 (2023-03-10T23:25:10)
Then that fruit would be like strawberry on the outside and chlorine on the seed.
Let’s see…
Grault (2023-03-14T03:19:52)
But the other Goblins were like that. Angry. Or they woke up and slept and ate.
Not sure what was intended, but taken literally this seems to mean none of the living goblins (the ones that eat and sleep) are angry.
Grault (2023-03-14T03:22:00)
Time for HWTF?
Blaz (2024-03-18T20:23:33)
The story is great so far
Bookwyrm (2024-06-18T07:10:29)
“Erin Solstice,aged 20.” -> “Erin Solstice, age 20.”
Omni (2024-08-18T03:52:15)
So 732 days old.
Mr anderson (2024-09-03T00:38:02)
At least from when she learnt to count
Lepiota (2025-02-01T01:15:09)
Now I feel bad for a goblin. Perfect
Jade Isentry (2025-12-07T15:31:31)
New reader here. Can read! Like [Chieftan]!
Can’t see image. Image is broken. :'(
Gives four-stick no-rock four-leaf words. Please fix.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.03
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-03/

The next morning, the young woman sat in a chair and pondered. It seemed stupid. No, it was stupid. But there could be only one explanation.
“When you level in dreams, you level in real life?”
Erin thought about that for a moment.
“Huh.”
She sat in the chair for a few more minutes. Those minutes turned into half an hour and then nearly a full hour before her stomach grumbled.
“Right, food.”
After another hour, Erin decided to get up. Her body protested the movement, but her stomach overruled her legs. She got up and reluctantly stumbled out the door.
Her legs hurt. As she stepped outside, Erin felt at the back of her legs and winced.
“Right. Knife cuts.”
She should wash those. If she had water. But since she didn’t and the wounds were already scabbed over, Erin left them and started walking.
It was a long, long walk back to the fruit trees. Erin was only glad she remembered where they were. She was even gladder that there weren’t any suspicious rocks along her route, but that only made her warier. Could they burrow? Were there grass crabs?
If there were, they didn’t seem interested in her at the moment. Erin found the strange, spindly trees easily and picked an armful of blue fruits. She was glad they were bountiful with the blue orbs, and gladder still the Goblins hadn’t stripped them bare. But it was a veritable orchard here, so she gathered as many as she could.
Erin sat and ate fourteen. It wasn’t that she was hungry so much asreally thirsty. She sucked as much of the blue juice out of the fruits before gathering as many as she could carry and walked back to the inn. The seed cores she left where they lay.
…Actually, now that she thought of it…
Erin doubled back and grabbed two seed cores and placed them carefully on top of her stack of blue fruits.
“Just in case. I should also get a bow and arrow or something, right? Too bad I have no idea how to shoot anything. Or have any idea how to carve a bow. You carve bows, right?”
Erin thought about that as she walked back over the sloping ground, taking care not to trip and break the seed cores. Howwould she make anything, anyways?
“Um. Is it three bars of iron and two sticks to make a pickaxe? Or can I make a wood sword by punching trees? Why couldn’t this be Minecraft instead?”
But now that she thought of it, Erin remembered the trees.
“Firewood. If I could cut the wood away, that is.”
She thought of the incredibly stiff branches.
“…Nope. But wait a second. What about fallen branches? Or—”
She turned around and started walking back. But again, she found no detritus from the tough trees anywhere in the orchard.
“Weird.”
Frustrated, Erin kicked a tree and dodged another falling blue fruit. She added it to her armful and walked back to the inn.
The room was still a mess from last night’s fight. Erin set the fruits down on one table and started righting chairs and tables.
“Stupid Goblins.”
She paused as a thought struck her. Goblins. Oh yeah. She’d fought Goblins.
Her eyes fell on the knife she’d taken from one of them. Slowly, Erin’s legs folded up, and she sat on the dusty ground again. Then she sneezed.
“Dusty. This is stupid.”
She got back up and looked around. Where was it? There.
“Dustrag. Let’s do this.”
Erin got down and began sweeping up the dust on the floor. It was difficult since she had to move all the tables and chairs out of the way, but it gave her something to do. She only had a small, dirty rag anyways after cutting the curtain into easier-to-use parts, so she was mainly doing it to think. Her mouth was terribly dry, but Erin started working. She had to focus.
“Goblins.”
Erin stared at the waves of dust as she scrubbed.
“Seriously. Goblins.”
She shifted two tables aside and pushed the dust out of the way.
“…With shark teeth. That’s messed up.”
Erin thought about that.
“But I won.”
She amended the statement instantly.
“Barely. They’re not that dangerous. They’re like kids. And I can beat up tons of kids even with knives. If I’m careful.”
Not that she was going to make a habit of that! Just Goblins. She could fight them off. Then Erin reconsidered again.
“Unless they stab me in my sleep. Or there are lots of them. I’m probably safe if I make sure they can’t get in without me hearing it. I should block every way in but have, like, an escape window.”
She’d have to remember to do that. Then she’d be forewarned and could hold them off or run; they didn’t seem as fast as she was. So she was reasonably safe from them? Erin bit her lip.
“There’s the rock-crab-thing. Does it eat Goblins?”
Was she safe in here fromthat thing? It couldn’t fit through the door, but could it knock down the walls? Probably not. 
So, as far as she knew, the inn was reasonably safe if she took precautions. What about leaving it? The Goblins—a memory nagged at her. They’d been carrying baskets. Which meant…
They hadn’t gone hunting for her.
“They were eating the blue fruits. So they live nearby.Wonderful. I’m going to run into them again. Which means I need a weapon. Great.”
Erin stopped and put her face in her hands. She immediately regretted that decision.
“Pheh! Dusty.”
She sighed and grabbed the rag. Time to clean up some…more?
“Uh. What happened to the dust?”
The floor of the inn was made out of floorboards. Very sensibly, and in keeping with the rest of the inn, which was also made out of wood. However, Erin had never seen the floor before. Up till this very moment, it had been covered by a thick layer of dust.
There had been so many clumps of dust rabbits it had been more like a dust sea, and a disgusting one at that. Erin had left a trail every time she walked across the floor, hence her desire to get rid of it. A task that would surely take at least two days given the size of the inn and her tool of choice, a rag instead of a broom or mop.
Now though, she was staring at the floor. A clean, dustless floor. Erin gazed down and then stared some more. Then she looked at her hands.
“Was that me?”
It must have been, but how had she done it? Of the numerous and varied—of the few talents Erin possessed, cleaning was not one of them.
Oh sure, she could clean up spills and small messes. Anything that involved tossing water and mopping stuff up was okay. But this?
“I wasn’t even dusting for more than—an hour? Two? And it’s all clean.”
Erin scuffed at the floor and amended that thought.
“Sort of clean. You couldn’t eat your dinner off it, I guess. But that’s why we have plates.”
And it was a definite upgrade from before. Distractedly, Erin scratched her head and felt the caked dirt and dust on her face start to crumble away.
“The floor is clean. I am not.”
Erin stared at the floor again and felt hot, sweaty, and very dirty. She felt like she was forgetting something, but she was sohot—she was dehydrated! And as soon as Erin realized that, she realized how thirsty she was.
“Right. I need a drink.”
Water, preferably. But Erin would have killed for a nice, cool drink of anything, really. Too bad there wasn’t any water nearby. More blue fruits? Why hadn’t she kept that bucket of water from when it had been raining? Instead, she’d used it to clean tables! Erin groaned, but she knew she couldn’t waste time on recriminations. She looked around and came to a realization.
“Time to find some. Or I’ll die. Whichever comes first.”
Erin wandered out of the inn. After a minute, she walked back in, grabbed the knife, and closed the door behind her as she left. After another minute, she walked back in and threw the dustrag on the ground. She slammed the door as she left this time.
——
“It’s really hot.”
Erin stumbled through the grass, looking around blearily every few steps. Her mouth felt dry and nasty. She had a headache, and she felt sweaty and gross. But what was really on her mind was water.
“Water. Water is water. Because water. Where’s the water?”
Erin walked for a few minutes in one direction and saw no water. So she turned left and started walking that way. Then she doubled back around and sat down. Her head felt…thick. And she was so unwell she sat there for a long time until she felt she had to get up.
She was so thirsty, and that overrode the throbbing feeling in her mind.
“I could drink a Gatorade. Or a Pepsi. I like Coke too, though. What about Pepsi and Coke and Gatorade? Gatorpepcoke? Pegatoroke?”
It occurred to her that she wasn’t making much sense. Even for her, that was. Erin looked around for the water and felt her head spinning. Her head was really starting to hurt.
“Cogapeptorade?”
Her foot slipped. Or maybe she stumbled. But suddenly, Erin tripped and had to spin around to keep her balance. That was so much fun that she started spinning around as she walked. She stopped after a few seconds and tried not to vomit.
“Feel sick.”
She wiped her brow. At least she wasn’t sweating. It was really hot, though. Weird.
She really needed to sit down in the shade. But there wasn’t any to be found, at least not where she was. Maybe if she lay down she’d feel better?
Erin went to bend over. Halfway down, she remembered.
“The stream!”
She tried to stand up and nearly fell flat on her face.
“Where—where was it?”
Head spinning, Erin looked around. The inn was still visible.
“It was there. So if I’m here…there?”
Shakily, Erin began stumbling towards where the stream was. As luck had it, she was closer than she thought and came across it in a matter of minutes.
——
The stream was flowing fast, cold, and surprisingly deep. The young woman didn’t care. The instant she spotted it over the small rise, concealed as it wound its way down from the mountains, she broke into a run and threw herself forwards, gasping with relief.
“Water!”
She cupped her hands and began drinking the water as fast as she could. One mouthful and Erin’s eyes bulged. She spat the water back out and looked down at her hands.
Her dirty, dust-covered, filthy hands. Erin dunked her hands in the water and gave them a scrub—as well as her face—and rinsed out her mouth before she tried again. Then she drank one huge palmful, another, and then five more.
——
It was around the fourth palmful that Erin realized she’d made a bad mistake. The water was delicious and as cold as ice cubes, but she was so thirsty she drank it down like…water. Five minutes later, she was lying on her side trying not to puke.
Too much water on a dehydrated body. Erin could feel her stomach trying to empty itself and was determined not to let it.
“It—it hurts. It really hurts…”
No one had told her not to drink water fast!Okay, maybe every P.E. teacher she’d ever had, but why didn’t she listen? The groaning girl was praying no Goblins or a crab snuck up on her right now, because she was afraid she wouldn’t be able to run if they did.
Fortunately for her, it seemed like nothing else was thirsty at the moment. And after what felt like an age of groaning in agony, the pain in her stomach receded enough for her to sit up. She was really glad she hadn’t puked. She only had one pair of clothes, after all.
Speaking of which—Erin raised her arm and sniffed. She shuddered and came to another decision.
“…Bath time.”
——
The stream was far deeper than Erin had thought. Deep enough for her to sit up to her shoulders in water along the edge. It was also cold. Erin had thought she knew pain when, in the delirium of waking up, she’d turn on the shower and realized she’d hit the cold water on full blast.
That was nothing to this stream’s chill. It was probably mountain runoff, and so it was one step above freezing. Erin’s teeth were chattering, and the fast-moving current meant that there wasn’t even a body of water to warm up in time.
It wasn’t even numbingly cold, which was too bad.
“B-being numb would be better than being really cold.”
But it was water, and it was making her clean. And the longer she sat, the warmer Erin felt. That was probably because her body was freezing up, but she didn’t care.
Erin ran her hand through her wet hair and sighed. She’d scrubbed hard, but without soap or shampoo, what could you do? And when she thought about how she hadn’t used a toothbrush in days…yuck.
At least the inn was clean, now. And since she was no longer actively dying of thirst, Erin had figured out how she’d done it so fast.
“Hm. So, [Basic Cleaning] was really a skill after all?”
Erin thought about it. It was better than thinking of cavities and rotting gums.
“…Huzzah. What a great skill! I mean, I might have to fight off giant crabs and Goblins, but at least I’ll be able to clean the floor while they eat me!I wouldn’t want to leave a mess.”
She sighed and dunked her head into the water.
“Gah!Cold!”
The stream was deep enough that Erin was up to her shoulders in the cold water. And it was moving fast enough that if she lay on her back, she might be swept downstream quite quickly.
“And if I follow the stream long enough, do I get to an ocean? Or just a lake?”
It was a tempting thought. Why not just let the waters carry her away to somewhere else? Anywhere had to be better than here, after all. She could leave and then…
“Then I’d be eaten by something else. Underwater Goblins, probably.”
Erin punched the water and sighed again.
“Monsters, monsters all around. And not one of them looks edible. But at least there’s blue fruit that smells like cleaning fluid. And at least there’s a dusty old inn. And at least I have four levels in innkeeping. Huzzah for me.”
She splashed some water on her face. Tired. She felt really tired. But being clean was helping a lot. Now that she had water she could drink and eat, at least. And with water, she could even have a bath.
“A really frickin’ cold bath.”
But it was good. And the sun was warm. Erin thought about getting out of the water and lying on the grass while the sun warmed her up. That was a good thought. Her clothes were already drying, and but for the few cuts and burnt right shoulder, they seemed fairly clean.
Bracingly cold bath, foodand water sources acquired, and a clean inn. The young woman brightened up a bit.
“Maybe today won’t be so bad after all.”
Erin laughed to herself.
“Or not. Knock on wood.”
She turned jokingly to find a piece of wood to knock on and saw it. A huge shadow in the water. A giant,flat head and jagged teeth over a brown, spotted body that had been almost invisible as it slunk along the stream bed. And it was coming straight at—
Erin shot out of the stream like a reverse cannonball just as the fish lunged. She felt something incredibly large brush past her navel, felt the slimy, slick feeling against her skin for one heart-stopping moment—
Then it was over. Erin lay on the grass, breathing for air as she stared at the fish flopping around on the grass. She recoiled, but the giant shape was flopping now, no longer a missile of death but a confused water breather on the wrong side of the divide between land and sea.
“W—wh—”
The fish flopped towards her. Erin flopped backwards and got to her feet. It might be on land, but it had a mouth as large as her head. It was almost one-third mouth, in fact. And it had very sharp, very long teeth.
The flat, squat fish that looked like a balloon with teeth kept thrashing around. It truly was like nothing Erin had ever seen. It was far wider than any regular fish, and only a stingray was that horizontal, but this fish was hardly as elegant. It was more like a brick designed to bite as much of you apart as it could. But for her seeing it, it might have taken a huge chunk out of Erin’s side. Or her face.
Whether it was trying to still bite Erin or get back in the water was hard to tell. Either way, it wasn’t having much luck; the floppy fish was arcing its body, trying to maneuver in the air as it leapt up and down, but it wasn’t designed to move about on land and mostly stayed where it was, biting at the air helplessly.
Erin stared at it for a good minute. She covered her face and screamed into her hands for a second.
“Fish. Fish with huge teeth. I hate this world so much.”
Eventually, the fish stopped flopping around. Erin slowly edged over to the fish and stared at it. Was it dead? It didn’t seem to be breathing. It was probably dead.
She pointed a trembling finger at the fish.
“Hah! Take that!”
The fish lay there. Erin edged over and nudged it with one toe.
Instantly, the fish leapt into the air, wriggling like a snake. Its tail smacked Erin in the face as she tried to run. That hurt.
Erin fell over and landed next to the writhing fish. She pulled herself away as the gaping maw opened and closed a few feet from her face and waited until the fish slowly stopped moving again. This time, she was pretty sure it was dead.
“Four minutes. Four minutes is a long time not to be breathing, right? Okay—”
Just in case, Erin psyched herself up, ran over, and kicked the fish hard in the side.
“Aaaaaah!”
Erin hopped around in agony, clutching her foot.
“Is that thing made ofrocks?”
It was like kicking a sack of cement. Not that Erin had ever kicked one, but she imagined that was what it was like. The fish had barely moved when she kicked it. It lay on the ground, jaw gaping open. It was definitely dead, now.
After a while, Erin stopped hopping around and swearing. She limped over to the fish and stared at it. It had…two eyes. Four, actually. But it had two on each side. One big eye and a smaller eye right behind it.
“Ew. Mutant fish with teeth.”
Erin stared at it for a little while longer. Her stomach rumbled.
“Right. Lunch.”
She poked the fish and tried to think of something to make. She had no fire, no other ingredients aside from blue fruit. The [Innkeeper]’s lips moved soundlessly for a second.
“…Sushi?”
——
“Discovery one: fish are heavy.”
The dead fish lay on the kitchen counter. It was dripping.
“Discovery two: kitchens have knives.”
It was a very sharp knife, too. It looked sharp, at least. Testing the sharpness with her thumb was probably a good way to lose her thumb. Erin’s arms hurt, and she smelled of fish. Oh, and her clothes weren’t dry. Lastly? She pinched at one nose with a sigh.
“Discovery three: fish stink.”
She sighed. Self-evident discoveries aside, she had no idea what to do next. Or rather, she only had a vague idea of what to do next.
She had a fish. You skinned a fish—or was that a bird?—and then you ate it. She was pretty sure about that. A fire was involved at some point, but slicing up the fish was a good first step. After all, wasn’t sashimi just raw fish? True, Erin had only eaten that once, with enough wasabi to burn her nose off, but it was worth a shot.
“And hey, I need food. So it’s time to chop stuff up.”
Still, Erin hesitated. She’d never had to cut up a fish before. How was she supposed to do it? She had no idea.
Maybe this is a moment where my new Skills could come in handy.Erin had a great idea. She lifted the knife, poked the fish in the side with it, and smiled hopefully.
“[Basic Cooking]! Give me—baked fish!”
Nothing happened. Erin hadn’t been expecting it, but she’d really, really been hoping the fish would vanish and a convenient, tasty dish would appear. She sighed.
“Huh. I guess [Basic Cooking] doesn’t work on fish.”
Or maybe not this fish. Or maybe she needed a fire? Erin gently poked it in the teeth and shuddered. Its scaly hide looked no easier to cut. But at least she had a knife.
True, she could have grabbed a bigger knife. Happily, there were several knives, ranging from one that looked like a proper cleaver to a tiny one the size of a finger. But she’d chosen a slimmer blade, because she didn’t want to wrestle with the big one. Besides, this one was sharpest, and she needed all the sharpness she could get.
Gingerly, Erin began sawing at the fish’s exterior. The knife skated over the scales without finding purchase. Grimly, Erin tried again. She sawed at the side and felt the skin begin to slowly part.
“Ew. Ew. Ew.”
At least she knew the fish bled red. That was really no comfort, actually. Erin warily held the knife as far away from her as possible while carefully pinching the fish with her other hand. She kept slicing at the scales, but she didn’t know how to do this. She didn’t cook as a rule, and fish? She’d buy it pre-filleted and deboned.
It was tough, too!The knife did not seem to cut well as she sliced horizontally with it, trying to peel the outside layer off. Erin sawed some more and managed to peel off a slice of skin. She looked into the fish’s insides and gagged.
“Oh. Oh god. Why—why is thatyellow? What is that?”
She poked it with the knife. The yellow thing vibrated. A bit of pale yellow-white pus oozed from it—
Erin put down the knife and stepped into the common room to breathe for a while. When her stomach had stopped lurching, she went back.
“There is noway I’m eating that. Cooked or raw. Actually, there’s no way I’m eating any of this without a frying pan.”
She looked around. Frying pan? Check. Good. There was actually a very respectable-looking one made out of cast iron lying right on the counter. She’d seen it on the first day, and while it might need a wash, it was big enough to make an omelet. The fish would need to be in a lot of parts to fry up, though.
“Okay, okay. Let’s just…get rid of the bones? And the—the squishy stuff.”
Erin cut then hacked at the easily detachable bits. It was hard work. Nothing really wanted to come out, and the knife she’d chosen wasn’t exactly a precision tool.
“Come on. Get out of there.”
The yellow thing was stuck to the bones. She couldn’t get it out.
“Alright. Can’t go around it. Gotta go under it. Goodbye head, look out belly, here comes the knifey.”
Erin flipped the fish over and tried to cut around the other side. But again, the scales were hard to saw through. And now everything was slippery with blood and fish juice.
“Come on. Cut. Cut!”
She pressed hard with the knife. But it just wasn’t going through the skin. Annoyed, Erin pushed harder. And the knife slipped.
It happened in an instant. Her hand lost its traction, and the blade skated across the scales. It flashed left, and Erin recoiled. She yanked her hand back and felt…she saw a flash of red on the blade.
“…Huh?”
Erin blinked and held up her left hand. A gaping red line split her palm diagonally. There was no blood.
She flexed her hand once. That’s when the blood started pooling. But there was no pain. The young woman just stared at it in horror, then gazed about.
Erin looked around. Bandage? There were no bandages nearby. Or cloth.
Her hand felt…numb. Then tingly.
Bandages? Cloth? There were…curtains upstairs. Right? But they were dirty and moldy too.
The blood was dripping onto the fish and the counter. Erin wanted to wipe it away, but she was still holding her knife. And suddenly, her hand started hurting.
“…Ow.”
Erin dropped the knife.
“Ahh. Ah.”
She gripped her wrist as hard as she could, stopping the blood flow. But the pain kept coming now, on and on.
“Bandage.”
She didn’t remember leaving the kitchen, but she was back with one of the curtains from upstairs and slicing it to make a bandage as blood soaked the cloth. It was hard. She could only use one hand, and her other hand washurting. The pain hadn’t been there at all, but with each microsecond, it was ratcheting up. The terror in her heart was being eclipsed by the need to shout. To scream.
Eventually, she wound the cloth tight and gritted her teeth as she tied a knot. The bloodstain was already spreading, though at least something was covering the wound. But it still hurt.
It hurt! Erin tried to think as she stumbled back to the common room. It wasn’t deep. Well, it was deep, but she wasn’t looking at bone. Yet it felt really deep.
“It hurts.”
She didn’t have words to describe the agony in her hand. The rest of the world was dim and unimportant compared to the pain radiating from that one point. All of her senses were focused on that place, and it was all Erin could do not to scream.
“Screaming is bad. Quiet.”
She just knew it. Screaming would make it somehow so much worse. So instead, Erin sat and gripped her wrist. The blood was dripping. It hurt.
It really hurt.
——
The sun was going down. Erin sat in the chair and stared at the puddle of blood on the floor. It wasn’t big. But every few seconds, another drop fell from the bloody bandage onto the floor.
Drip. Drip.
The pain was still there. It didn’t go away, even after this long. But it was—better. At least she could think a bit. She’d moved around, gotten another curtain and sliced it up for a second bandage. But she hadn’t wanted to change the one she was using, so she just sat.
She knew she should try to stop the bleeding. Apply pressure. But any more and she would scream. And if she started, she feared she’d never stop.
The first hour…the first hour she’d just held her wrist, mouth open, forcing herselfnot to scream. Hoping, praying that the agony would desist. It didn’t—it never went away. But she had eventually sat here. 
Staring at her blood as it fell to the floor.
Drip.
Something smelled bad. Erin looked up. What was that smell? She wanted to ignore it, but after a few minutes, she had to stand up and go see.
It was coming from the kitchen. Erin walked in, clutching the wrist of her bad hand.
“Oh. Of course.”
The dead fish stared up at her on the cutting board drenched with her blood. It stank. At the same time, Erin’s stomach grumbled. She wasn’t hungry for fish, but she was hungry.
She didn’t want to eat, though, if that made sense. Erin walked back to the chair and sat down. As she did, she bumped the back of her legs. The knife cuts burned and hurt. A different kind of pain.
“I get it. It’s a bad day, right?”
Erin whispered. It made her feel better not to talk loudly. She was awake even though she was tired. The pain wasn’t going to let her sleep. And she was hungry, but she really didn’t want to eat.
So she sat and watched her blood fall.
Drip.
——
It was dark when the small puddle stopped growing. It soaked into the floorboards, a dark stain in the night. Erin stared at the blackness. She couldn’t sleep.
“Still hurts.”
That was—an understatement. The night was cool, even cold, but sweat was beading on her forehead. Her teeth ached from clenching, and she felt like a single line of pain was her entire being. It radiated up from her hand, and she—
Couldn’t make a sound. Just think of something else.
Erin stared at the table. She stared at the grain of the wood. Tried to think of—of—things to do? Make bandages? Find…?
No good. She couldn’t distract herself. But she had to. Her eyes rolled in her head. Couldn’t she fall unconscious from the pain? If only.
She had no strength to stand. It hurt too much. She couldn’t think—the only things that came to her were the most basic instincts. She had to think of something else, though.
So Erin began to whisper. She forced herself to—remember. How did it go?
“Pawn…pawn to E4.”
She rested her injured hand on the table. It flared once in pain and then resumed throbbing. Her other hand traced a square, and her eyes darted over the empty table. Her eyes were watery with pain, but she didn’t need to see in the pitch blackness. She knew it by heart.
Her fingers closed, as if holding something small and delicate. She even moved her left hand, tracing it across the table. Yes. That was how it went. What came next?
“Pawn to E5. Pawn to F4. Pawn captures F4—King’s Gambit Accepted. Bishop to C4, queen to H4. Check. Bishop’s Gambit. King to F1, pawn to B5. Bryan Counter-gambit. Bishop captures B5, knight moves to F6. Knight moves to F3…”
The pained whisper went on and on, until her throat dried and she kept up in her mind. First one game, then another. Erin kept talking to herself, kept playing long into the night. Alone, in the blackness of the inn as the shutters rattled every now and then and faint peeks of moonlight shone through.
A line of agony trying to divide her in half as she clung to the only thing she knew. Whispering the moves of a famous chess game, an immortal game, into the silence to distract herself.
But the pain in her hand never stopped.
It just kept hurting.
And hurting.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:24:23)
Leave a comment below for typos!
juppie (2023-03-10T22:14:42)
Suggestion, not a typo:
It was probably mountain runoff, and so it was one step above freezing.
–>
It was probably mountain runoff, and so it was only one step above freezing.
Darkgills (2023-04-19T06:43:04)
Bro Erin has got to be one of the luckiest people if she doesn’t get sick, she’s gotten stabbed probably a dozen times with rusty nasty goblin knifes, and then ate a mysterious fruit (we know it’s safe but she had no way of knowing) and then started cutting up a fish probably cutting into its intestines and what not, only to stabbed her hand deeply with the same knife without it having been washed lmao.
Salamander (2023-08-10T00:37:42)
This is probably the first piece of fiction I’ve read where your palm getting cut is a serious and painfull injury, rather than a mild inconvenience after using way more blood than you needed for magic. I love it!
marine (2023-10-12T05:06:38)
Poor erin, hopefully she gets some good luck soon
I’m definitely enjoying the daily/episode format so far
Scrifty (2023-11-06T21:46:22)
Wow, as someone who’s father and grandfather was chefs that physically hurt to read because of the cringe.
deadinside (2024-01-21T18:00:22)
I could feel the pain from reading.
Blaz (2024-03-18T20:44:53)
I’m so happy I managed to follow the chess moves

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.04
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-04/

Erin woke up suddenly. Her hand wasburning.
Though her head felt like fog, she couldn’t fall back asleep. Instead, Erin just sat and cradled her hand again. She couldn’t move it or the pain would get worse, but sleeping or relaxing were beyond her as well. She could only sit in agony.
Bit by bit, the pain faded away. Maybe it was her waking up, or maybe she just got numb.
“Either way.”
Erin got up. She still held her hand and took great care not to flex it at all. It was…aching didn’t even begin to describe it. It was just pain, all the way through. And it wasn’t stopping.
But at the same time, shewas ravenous. And for a little bit, that overrode her pain.
Slowly, very slowly, Erin hobbled around the inn. She grabbed the blue fruits with her good hand and began chomping them down one at a time. She was so hungry she ate four before she knew it, and then polished off two more as she sat at a table.
She would have sat there forever. Getting up wasn’t worth the effort, but a higher power called to her. It spoke in words she could not ignore.
Bathroom.
Erin sighed and put her head on the table. But the longer she sat the more uncomfortable it became. Still, the pain in her hand fought off the need to go relieve herself for the better part of an hour. When Erin finally stood up, she marched to the inn’s door and kicked it open. She’d go do her business in a random valley and then wash her hands at the stream. Hygiene and all that.
Erin made it five steps out of the inn before she reluctantly turned back and closed the door behind her. She doubted the Goblins would come back, but—safety. That done, she went about the business of doing her business.
——
It took nearly two hours before Erin came back. That was mainly due to her getting lost. Somehow, the stream seemed to be in a different spot than she’d remembered, and when she’d completed her task, she wasn’t able to retrace her steps.
The one benefit of finding the stream was being able to dunk her hand in the cold water to reduce the pain slightly. But she’d been watching for fish in the water, and all she wanted was to go back and sleep again.
When she did finally see the welcome sight of the inn, Erin could have cried with relief. All she wanted was to sit and suffer in peace, and the open door welcomed her in.
Absentmindedly, Erin walked through the door and closed it behind her. Then she went back and sat down at the table. Only then did she feel the wet fabric clinging to her hand and look down. She looked at the dirty, bloody bandage now sodden with water. She wasn’t a medical doctor. Or a doctor. Or even very familiar with first aid, but she didn’t think that was healthy.
“Damn it.”
——
“Ow. Owch.Ow.”
Every time Erin peeled off a bit of the bandage, part of her skin and a lot of blood went with it. Some of it was dried blood. Some of it was not.
After she’d gotten half of the bandage off, Erin had to stop. The pain was too much. And the bandage was stuck to her skin. But having a half-peeled bandage was worse. Erin couldn’t stop picking at it.
“Maybe I can cut the rest off somehow.”
Erin went to the kitchen. There were certainly sharp things in there. Like knives.
“Not knives.”
So were there scissors? They didn’t seem very medieval, but who knew? Erin decided to go through the cupboards in the kitchen again. She had no energy for the outside, but she couldn’t sleep and she’d only opened about half that first night.
This time, no longer panicking, Erin did a systematic search of every drawer and cupboard in the kitchen. The dust that poured out made her sneeze and cough, but she did find some basic cooking utensils like metal spatulas, a drawer full of tarnished silverware, and even some plates. The cupboards held a lot of things that Erin only vaguely understood.
Cooking implements, she suspected, like some weird metal grater with a wood handle. Did you…press down from the top? She found a corkscrew, the tip rusted, a collection of moldy cup holders, and a bunch of other culinary knickknacks. There were a lot of them. And that was…strange. Erin tried to make sense of it out loud since her inner thoughts were mostly devoted to not crying in pain.
“I’ve seen old kitchens in castles. I thought drawers and that kind of stuff only came later. This is, um, steel. Or at least iron. Itlooks like steel. Did they have a lot of steel in the medieval ages? Knights in armor, duh. But when were cheese graters invented? Is this place in the Dark Ages or past that? And can I get a light bulb somewhere around here?”
Erin grumbled as she searched with one hand. She threw open another cupboard and stopped. She stared at the pristine interior and the perfectly fresh, perfectly preserved…
“What the—”
Food. Food was sitting in the cupboard. A gleaming, single link of a sausage, a glass jar filled with white powder, and another container with a knife stuck in the little opening—
Erin had to rub her eyes with her good hand. Then she slapped herself to make sure she wasn’t dreaming. But when she looked again, it was still there.
“Is that…flour?”
Erin opened the jar and poked a finger at the powder. It felt—real. And fresh. Or, at least, it didn’t feel like white mold and dust, which is what itshould have been. Erin drew her finger back, shaking, and stared at the white granules on her finger. She sniffed and nearly sneezed again—no clues from that aside from a lack of much to smell.
“Itcould be flour. Or—alternatively, it could be cocaine.”
She tried to smile, but her hand hurt too much.
“…It’s probably flour.”
But was it any good? Erin stared at the bag and tried to remember how long things were supposed to stay good. Probably not that long, even in glass jars.They had blown glass in this world?
No, focus on the flour. And the sausage? Erin stared at it. It looked like one of those things you saw in old-timey kitchens. Just a…her mouth watered.
There was no way that was good. Not unless someone had put this here right before she arrived. And if that were the case…no.
No, there was something odd about the cupboard. Unlike every other one, there was no dust or spiderwebs, and it had seemed in the best condition of the lot, despite the fraying wood. It smelled like, well, a cupboard, and the food smelled like it was edible.
It had to be a trick, though.Erin sighed and pulled the jar of flour out anyways. Might as well check. But then she caught sight of the pot with the knife in it and opened it. Erin placed it on the counter, removed the lid, and here was another surprise.
Erin’s eyes narrowed, and she frowned hard.
“That’s butter.”
There was no mistaking it. And it wasn’t just butter either. Erin was used to the nice, square sticks of butter that turned soft and spreadable in the sun. This…was more like apot of butter. Yellow, swirled about, with a knife stuck in it, gleaming and ready to be applied to a bit of bread or something nice. Erin’s stomach rumbled at it, and she was almost tempted to eat it as-is. However—
“That’s not right.”
Erin stared at the butter. It was a golden yellow,fresh. Like someone had thawed a stick of butter just now. Same with the sausage and flour—well, the flour was just flour.
Yet everything else? Erin stared around the kitchen. Dust and cobwebs seemed to make up most of the room. She stared at the floor she had yet to sweep.
“How long does it take for dust to get two inches deep?”
Five months? Two years? Five years? Either way, Erin was pretty sure butter didn’t last that long. She craned her neck around, suddenly feeling a prickle of suspicion on the back of her neck.
“Is someone messing with me?”
Erin glanced around. Could someone have put the food in here? But no, her footsteps were the first to disturb the dust. So then how…?
Her eyes flicked back to the cupboards. At last, something bright caught her attention. It was inlaid around the edges of the cupboard, on the interior door, which was why she hadn’t seen it, but a silver glimmer finally caught her eye.
“Oh. Oh!”
Erin Solstice stared at a line of glowing, incomprehensible symbols drawn along the edge of the cupboard. They looked like someone had painted them there with the most delicate brush and silver paint. They were nonsensical: circles and connected shapes that almost looked like letters or—
It hurt her head just to focus on them, and the longer she stared, the brighter the runes seemed to grow. It was—Erin brushed at the inscriptions and traced them around the edge of the entire pantry. She didn’t know what they meant, but she was convinced this wasn’t just random art or even a fanciful attempt at the real stuff. This meant something, and the hair on the back of her neck rose as she touched one beautiful sigil.
“Wow. Magic.”
She stared at the runes, entranced. Then a thought struck her, and she opened the other cupboards. Could it be that…?
“Here. Here…they’re everywhere.”
Around the edges of each cupboard were the same small etchings of runes. Erin traced them with her fingertip, but unlike the cupboard with all the good food, these ones weren’t glowing. The paint was flaking, and beyond the glow, some quality had been lost. She noticed a break in the wood along one solid line of the magic writing and took a wild guess.
“Huh. I guess it wore off. Or maybe they broke somehow? I wonder what they’re made of.”
She went back to the enchanted cupboard in awe. But now curiosity was engulfing her, so she gingerlytouched the runes on the cupboard door. 
…It felt like painted wood, but Erin had to believe it was something more. Was it just paint? Could you re-draw this and get more magic? Experimentally, she scraped at the runes with one fingernail. A bit of it flaked off onto her finger.
“Silver? Or something glowy.”
It was fragile, too. The young woman hesitated. Was that supposed to happen? She poked a little harder, not really thinking, just curious.
The old wood of the cupboard was beyond delicate with age. Erin’s finger jabbed the lip of the wood, and a splinter of it came away. Just a thin fragment of wood. And silver, glowing magic.
The fragment of wood disrupted the glowing line traced around the cupboard. The glowing symbols flickered—and as Erin watched in horror, they faded away.
“No,nonono—”
The sliver of wood dropped to the ground, and Erin stared at the piece then tried to replace it.
“Don’t do this to me! No—I just—”
She tried to press it back into place, and the woodcracked, and more runes flaked away and drifted downwards in a little spiral of silver dust and wood. Erin stood there, mouth open in horror.
“Oh you’ve got to be shi—”
Erin pulled back too far as she stood up, overbalanced, and fell backwards. She didn’t hit the ground too hard, but her bad hand smacked the ground. Instantly, Erin grabbed her hand and cradled it, but she could feel the blood running again. She curled up into a ball and stayed there for a long time.
“It’s not fair. It’s not fair.”
Erin looked up after the pain faded a bit. She saw a dark cupboard. When she got up, the food was still the same, but the magic had gone.
Dully, she stared at the now dark symbols. Dead. Just like that. The food? Still fresh. But it wouldn’t be fresh any longer. And the magical cupboard was dead. Forever.
Erin rubbed at her eyes. She wasn’t crying. But her eyes stung a bit. That was all.
That was all.
——
Erin sat at the table in the common room and talked to herself. It was mainly to avoid thinking about pain or her own stupidity.
“True, you’ve gotta leave stuff behind when you leave. Can’t carry everything. But you had good food still here. And more, in those other cupboards. And here’s a kitchen full of supplies…how expensive are good, sharp knives?”
Erin flexed her hand and winced again. Very sharp knives.
“No one leaves that behind. So why would anyone…?”
It was a bad thought to have. Erin suddenly felt very uneasy. The hair on her neck began prickling, and her stomach began doing pushups.
“Question. How did Mr. Skeleton upstairs die?”
Her spine tingled.
“Maybe that’s a bad question.”
But once asked, it wasn’t easy to get rid of. Erin tried to ignore it. She stared at the dried blood on her hand, ate another blue fruit, but the thought lingered. Eventually, she couldn’t bear it any longer. She stood up.
“Upstairs. Fine. Hello darkness my old enemy.”
It wasn’t nearly as hard going up the stairs. Now that she knew what was in every room, going down the dark hallways wasn’t scary. But going in the last room? That was very scary.
Erin took a few deep breaths before she opened the door. Her palm was sweaty on the doorknob.
“Am I afraid of dead people? Well yeah. But they can’t hurt me. Zombies can, but normal dead people can’t. It’s just a skeleton. I can take a look for signs of—of death, and then I’ll go sleep. Good plan. Let’s do it.”
She opened the door and stared inside. Then she ran back and started opening the other doors on the top floor, slamming into each room before running to the next. But what she sought was not there.
Slowly, Erin walked back to the room at the far end and looked inside. A sagging bed, a small table, a shuttered window. Nothing else. Erin whispered into the silence.
“It’s gone.”
——
The skeleton was gone. Erin was sure of it. It wasn’t anywhere in the inn that she’d looked, and she’d combed both the top and bottom floor thoroughly. And the worst part about losing a dead body was wondering where it went.
Erin sat in the common room. Actually, she sat in a corner of it, her back to the wall as her eyes darted around the room. It wasn’t that she was waiting for a pile of bones to fall from the ceiling. But…she would prefer to know where said bones had gone.
“Okay. Okay. What’s the problem? It was just a skeleton. Just a spooky, dead thing. And even if it did move—somehow, where would it go?”
She didn’t know why she was whispering to herself. It just made her feel…well, it didn’t make her feelbetter, but it felt appropriate. It was getting dark. It was nearly night. In the circumstances, being loud didn’t feel like the smart thing to do.
And the skeleton might hear her.
“No, no. That’s impossible. It’s not here. It’s somewhere else. Besides, where could it hide? I checked all the rooms upstairs. So where could it be?”
The…cupboards?
Her eyes darted towards the kitchen. No. It couldn’t be. She’d checked.
What about underneath the floorboards? Or on the roof?
Erin kept very still and listened. Nothing. That was good, right?
But skeletons don’t need to breathe. They don’t need to move until you’re asleep. And then…
Enough. Erin shook her head. It was all in her head. There had to be a perfectly good reason for a corpse to disappear suddenly—
What about the walls?
Erin refused to turn her head. She was just being paranoid. Which was a good thing. Because it could be anywhere. She could just see herself, asleep, as a skeleton tip-toed out of the darkness, a knife in hand and—
She wrenched herself out of that idea. Skeletons didn’t do that, she had to believe. It was more reasonable to assume someone had taken it. The skeleton was not her imagination. Someone had taken it. Why?
“Because it was valuable? Because skeletons areso useful, sure. Maybe the Goblins did it. Can’t you eat bones? Or—someone else?”
That was just as inconceivable. Okay, maybe someone, something took the skeleton. But why? And when?
Erin’s mind suddenly flashed back to when she’d returned that morning. Hadn’t the inn’s door been open? She hadn’t noticed at the time, but she remembered closing it as she left. She didn’t remember having to open it when she got back.
Her skin crawled. The inn suddenly felt a lot less safe.
But it was just her imagination. She had an overactive imagination. If she went to sleep, all would be well. All she had to do was close her eyes, and when she woke up, all would be well. There was nothing to worry about. Erin couldn’t even hear anything except the rapid beating of her heart and thecreaking.
Creaking. A footstep.
Erin sat bolt upright. Her heart felt like it was about to stop from sheer overwork. Her eyes darted to the ceiling.
Something was up there.
She heard it moving about. Maybe if she’d been more relaxed she might never have noticed the faint creaks and groans of floorboards as something crept around upstairs. And judging by the sounds…
Erin tracked the progress of the creature above her. It was moving to the stairwell.
Slowly, Erin clenched her bad hand to avoid screaming. The pain as her sliced hand throbbed and started to bleed grounded her. Silently, she stood up.
The knife was on the table. Erin held it in her good hand and moved around. The stairwell was on the right side of the room. Anyone coming down wouldn’t be able to see her if she were in the rightmost corner.
Skirting the chairs and tables, Erin made her way over and crouched down. The handle of the kitchen knife was slippery in her hand with sweat. Her other hand was slippery with her blood. She gazed at the blade of the knife. It was very sharp.
The creaking stopped for a moment as the intruder reached the top of the stairs. Erin waited. It would come down. And when it did, she’d get one chance to attack first.
Attack first? Am I some kind of hero?
No. New plan. The instant Erin saw what it was, she was running for her life. But she had to see what it was first.
The skeleton popped into her head. Was it that? Or was it the creature that had stolen its bones? Was it some kind of parasitic creature that lived in dead corpses—or a gaunt nightprowler that ate the marrow of the deceased?
Please let it just be a skeleton.
The monster started descending the stairs. Quietly. Slowly. Even though Erin was listening, she barely heard the sound it made. She tried to guess how far down it was. Halfway. Two-thirds. A few steps left.
Something left the last step and walked into the common room. Erin didn’t breathe. She didn’t move, or even blink.
Slowly, the creature stepped closer. Erin squinted and gasped as it came into view. Then she stood up and sighed.
“Oh. Just a Goblin.”
The short green creature whirled around in surprise as Erin stood up with a sigh. It immediately crouched, its sharp dagger held in a fighting stance. It snarled at her.
She snarled back.
——
The rest of the Goblin ambush party of seven waited outside of the inn, keen ears straining for sound. Each one was a seasoned warrior—at least by the standards of their small clan. They were all armed with the best weaponry available. The most dangerous among them had shortswords that were only half-covered in rust. And they were awaiting the signal.
The inn’s door flew open. The Goblins looked up. They expected the Human female to run out of it, screaming and preferably bleeding. At worst, they expected their comrade to be running out, her fast on his heels. They readied their weapons.
And ducked as a body flew over their heads.
“Go to hell!”
The Human female slammed the door shut.
The Goblins stared at the closed door of the inn. They stared at the barely recognizable face of the unconscious Goblin and then exchanged a look. Then they quickly picked up their fallen comrade and legged it back into the night.
——
The young woman’s fight with the Goblins did not go unnoticed. The little Goblin that had crept after the attack group seeking revenge for yesterday witnessed their second embarrassing flight.
She almost liked the Human for beating the one who tried to creep into the second floor. She hit him a lot. She thought the warriors wouldn’t tell the Chieftain about this, either.
However, the littlest Goblin didn’t know that while she was staring at the inn and creeping back with the warriors,she was being watched.
——
A crouched figure stared at both the Goblins and the fleeting image he had seen of the person in the inn. So therewas someone there. Of all the luck! It was a perfect place, but he had no idea whether she was alone or dangerous in and of herself.
She certainly seemed fearless of Goblins, though that wasn’t saying much. But what was she doing out there?
Well, she didn’t have anything else to steal that he’d seen. Not that he’d had much time. He decided to keep an eye on the place. But the growling of his stomach almost alerted the small Goblin. She stopped, staring around, and he ducked back into cover.
Damnation!She couldn’t see him, but he decided to return to his lair, his abode. His sanctuary, yes. He might not have gotten anything but bones, but those bones would help him finish his latest project.
Oh, yes indeed.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:24:30)
Leave a comment below for typos!
juppie (2023-03-10T23:01:44)
The food? Still fresh. But it wouldn’t be fresh any longer.
–>
The food? Still fresh. But it wouldn’t be fresh much longer.
wizerdo37 (2023-03-20T15:34:27)
that crouching figure uses skeletons for his experiments so he is a necromancer, is he the one the dragon talked about in chapter 1.01 when he was almost “ambushed” ?
Let’s see…
Sanguine (2023-04-10T03:28:59)
Wow. First time we got confirmation that Pisces is the one that took the bones. That was a plot hole before the re-write
Sinclaire (2023-06-25T16:19:34)
Damnation, eh? Reminds me of a fellow named Sunless.
church of funny (2023-07-25T21:50:55)
I love that dude. I printed his webnovel page I frequently sniff it.
Askeron (2023-10-27T20:49:47)
ehhh dont tease that much and spill a clear recommendation please? maybe get a cub of blue fruit juice as a reward from someone
Scrifty (2023-11-06T22:55:43)
I see she isn’t the sharpest tool in the shed, you don’t touch random magical items! That could’ve killed her! Though she didn’t she just lost her best food source lol. I hope she takes this as a learning lesson and stops poling at random shit.
yagoldt (2024-01-08T12:34:54)
“Oh an unknown magical rune? Let me TOUCH IT, even better SCRATCH IT”
bookboss (2024-06-04T01:34:17)
In case you haven’t found it yet, that is a reference to the main character of Shadow Slave. Probably the only worthwhile book on WebNovel.
Slime (2024-08-15T20:58:21)
If she wanted to know what were the runes made of, wouldn’t it be smarter to NOT touch the one that’s still working?? Dang girl u kinda dumb for a RTS™ player…
Ilovethis!! (2024-11-11T17:06:42)
You know, the one thing I never understood about Erin was why she stayed at the inn despite all the danger?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.05
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-05/

Erin woke up with her back against the inn’s front door. Her neck was aching, and her hand was burning. It was morning.
“Ow.”
She held her hand. It was hurting—
“Feels like it’s worse than yesterday. Which is probably my imagination.”
She sat, cradling her hand for a full minute. Then she remembered why she was sitting there and shot to her feet.
“Skeleton? Goblins.”
Where was it? Erin hobbled over to a table. There. Two daggers on the tabletop. She looked around at the windows—some even had furniture piled up to make sure nothing could get in. And she’d been up all night, waiting to hear anything trying to come in. But no other Goblins had, and the other one had left its dagger as well, albeit unwillingly. Erin mumbled to herself as she poked one of the hilts with a finger.
“At this rate, I’m going to start a collection.”
At least it proved she hadn’t been dreaming. Well, until she’d fallen asleep. But nothing had killed her, so Erin tried to put the disappearing corpse out of her mind.
“No skeleton? No problem. I hope.”
She sighed and then sniffed.
“What’s that smell?”
Something smelledreally bad. And it was coming from the kitchen. The instant Erin opened the door, she groaned aloud.
The fish lay on the cutting board, covered in dry blood and reeking in the sunlight. It stank. Actually, it smelled worse than that.
“This. This is disgusting.”
Erin stared at the fish for a few more seconds. She had absolutelyno desire to touch it. On the other hand…
A few black things crawled out of the fish’s mouth. Erin stared at the small things, gagged, and then ran outside before she hurled.
That was the start of her day.
——
How did you get rid of a fish? Erin put it outside on the ground and stared at it.
“I could bury it. If I had a shovel. And I could burn it. If I had a way to make fire. Or…I could leave it over there.”
She picked it up and walked for about fifteen minutes before she was sure she was far enough away from the inn. Then, Erin unceremoniously dumped the rotting fish off the cutting board.
That was a mistake.
As the fish hit the ground, itexploded. Something inside of it broke or squished, and suddenly a host of little black and green insects exited the fish’s body from every orifice. Erin took one look, screamed, and ran. She was getting good at that.
——
It took her a long time before she found the courage to return. And even then, it was just to run in, grab the cutting board, and leg it to the stream.
“Ew, ew,ew.”
Erin thrust the plank of wood in the water and watched fish guts and insects sweep away into the current. It wasn’t the dead fish she objected to. Well, not as much as the live bugs that clung stubbornly to the wood. They were small, and she wasn’t sure if she was relieved or further disgusted to see they were flies, not beetles or anything worse.
Big flies, though, with fat, glowing abdomens. Like—disgusting fireflies, lurid green instead of nice yellow. Not that fireflies were that cute up close either. Erin pointed at the last straggler refusing to be pulled off by the water.
“You. Get off.”
The tenacious fly seemed to have the strength of ten bugs, because it refused to let the current drag it off. Erin lifted the board a bit and realized this fly had other odd qualities. Something about its head was triangular, and yes, that glowing abdomen was far bigger than a firefly’s. It even looked slightly…liquid, and the bloated insect was like nothing she had ever seen before on Earth.
“Another weird creature. Wonderful.”
Reluctantly, she looked closer.Know thy enemy, right? She supposed she should also know her bug.
“That’s definitely a bug. And it’s really ugly. If I could take it to a scientist back home, I bet I’d be famous. Since I can’t—go away, would you?”
She dunked the board and shook it underwater.Swish. Swish. The bug clung to the wet wood despite Erin’s best attempts to shake it off. Then she noticed another detail.
“…Why’s it got four legs? I thought bugs had six.”
It was also segmented in two places, as if the bug had people-legs. That was weird and disconcerting. And still, it refused to let go of the wood, fanning its wings futilely and trying to fly off. Probably to join its many siblings still buzzing around the dead fish’s corpse. Well, Erin wasn’t going to bother the rest of them, but this one? This one had a date with the water. It just refused to go.
Annoyed at this resistance, Erin finally pulled the cutting board out of the water. The insect fanned its wings as she stared at it. It was really mostly like a firefly, except that its backside was glowing green. Better than a cockroach, but there was only one way to deal with bugs like that.
Erin curled her finger and gave the bug a damn good flick.
It exploded.
The insect’s green abdomen burst into a splatter of green liquid as the rest of it flew off into the stream. Erin blinked as the green liquid covered the cutting board and splashed into the water.
Some of it landed on Erin’s arm. Instantly, both the board and her arm began tosmoke and dissolve.
“Ahh! Owowowowowow!”
She plunged her arm into the water. It was an instinctive reaction, but it made the pain vanish. Still, Erin frantically scrubbed at the spot until all of the burning pain had gone. She looked at the cutting board and stared as the green liquid ate into the wood until she dunked it into the water. Then she stared at her burnt skin, and the cutting board, eaten away by…
Erin turned her head and backed away as the rest of the glowing insects buzzed around the dead fish.
“Acid flies. Okay, that’s completely wrong.”
——
Her skin was red and sore from the brief contact with acid, but she was fine. Nevertheless, she washed both her body and the cutting board until she felt completely clean. This was less fun, because Erin was also watching out for strange shadows in the water.
“Great. My hand hurts, and now my arm hurts.”
Erin stared at the dead fish as she walked back to the inn. The fish’s body was swarming with those little acid flies. They were probably laying eggs in it or something equally fun.
Briefly, Erin considered dragging the fish into the stream and letting all the buggers drown. Then she considered what would happen if all the flies landed on her and exploded.
“Right. Well, there’s only one thing to do in a situation like this.”
Erin raised first one, then both her middle fingers. Her injured left hand hurt like fire, but it still made her feel better.
“That’s for all of you.”
Then she went back to the inn. There was only one good thing in the world right now. And that was food.
——
“I really should have brought a bucket.”
Erin stared at the ingredients lined up on the kitchen counter. Her stomach was rumbling, and she was in the mood for food. But she didn’t really want another breakfast, lunch, and dinner of blue fruit. Today, she was in the mood for bread. Freshly baked bread. And that lovely bit of sausage.
She’d been holding off on eating either, mainly due to the pain and infestation of her kitchen, but Erin was relieved to find the bugs hadn’t gone for the good food, instead preferring the fresh, rotting corpse of the fish. So she had ingredients! Enough to make bread!
Unfortunately, that required water. And Erin really didn’t want to walk to the stream and back with a heavy bucket. But she needed water. She knew that. Somehow.
Was it instinct? Erin frowned and knocked on her skull. She had never made food, not really. Well, she’d made Mac and Cheese and instant ramen, but that didn’t count. And that went for microwaves and ovens too. So why did she know that to make bread she needed flour, oil, salt, sugar, yeast, and some water? It had to be magic.
Or a skill.
“[Basic Cooking], huh?”
Erin stared at the washed cutting board. Yes, all the ingredients were here. It made sense; this was a kitchen. Kitchens had ingredients. Therefore, she could make bread. Or dough. To make bread, she’d have to bake it in an oven. Handily, this kitchen had an old oven that Erin’s instincts told her she could use. But to use the oven, she needed fire.
She had no idea how to make a fire.
Whatever new ability she had to make food, it did not extend to making fire. Erin stared at the empty fireplace in the oven and thought.
“Sticks. You hit sticks together. Or rocks.”
She looked around. She had wood. There were lots of chairs and tables. What she didn’t have were matches. Or a lighter. Or a can full of gasoline and a flamethrower.
Erin went back to the kitchen. Therehad to be something to start fires in there. How else would you cook things?
“Right. Rummage time. I know I saw a shelf full of weird stuff somewhere…”
She went back through the shelves. In her first search through the kitchen, she’d put everything vaguely useful or non-rusted in the cupboard next to the food.
“Let’s see. Frying pan? No. Tongs? No. A saw? Why does a kitchen need a saw?”
Erin set the small handsaw aside and squinted. Behind that was something she hadn’t quite figured out. Well, two things—a rock and something else. Something weird.
“Is that…a horseshoe?”
No. It was way too small to be a horseshoe and the wrong shape. Unless this world had really weird, small horses that was. But even then, why have horseshoes in a kitchen?
“Unless they ate horses.”
Erin stared at the horseshoe-thing. She stared at the rock. Slowly, she slid the rock along the fire striker and watched sparks fly.
“Huh. Sothat’s what flint and steel looks like. It actually does look like Minecraft!”
Erin paused. She sighed and slapped herself gently.
“I’m an idiot.”
——
Flint and steel was actually pretty fun to use. So long as you didn’t burn down the flammable, wooden inn around you by accident.
Erin peered in the large fireplace and fumbled with the flint and steel again.
“Dried grass…check. Broken chair…check. Fire?”
She slid the flint across the steel quickly and flinched as the sparks flew.
“Ow. Hot!”
The shower of sparks descended on the dry grass like a swarm of angry fireflies. And the tinder caught fire in places, and the fire grew.
Erin held her breath. Then she exhaled, blowing at the small flames like she’d seen television campers do.
“Damn. It went out.”
She struck the flint and steel again. This time, she let the fires grow a bit and did not blow on them. Slowly, the small fires grew. She fed the small flames pieces of wood and grinned.
“Fire! Call me Prometheus…Promethea.”
The warmth on her front became a little too hot, so Erin scooted back, but she was grinning. Well, she was grinning until she sat on her bad hand.
“Okay. Pain. But now I can make bread! I’ve got all the ingredients. Right? Right. I just need flour, yeast, butter, a bit of salt and sugar and—”
Erin sighed.
“Oh yeah. Water. Great. Well, I can just go out and get some. It’s not like there’s a time limit or anything—”
She looked back at the fire she’d just started. It was already starting to go out.
“Dammit.”
——
There had been no light yesterday or the day before. During the daytime, it was conceivable they might have seen something from the walls, but no one had looked that far expecting to find anything but monsters or Goblins.
However, by daylight, the faint trickle of smoke was possibly, possibly visible. And if the wind blewjust right, the keenest of noses might pick it up.
Or it could just be their imagination. However, the watchers on the walls dutifully reported it to their superior.
“It could just be nothing, Senior [Guardswoman].”
The woman frowned and sniffed to pick up the faint smell. There were countless scents around her, and this was like a needle in a haystack, but she agreed.
“It does look like—smoke. Maybe it’s a traveller. Or bandits. Or whoever’s been robbing the farmsteads.”
“Or Goblins. I’ve seen them creeping around now and then. Do we send out a patrol?”
She thought about it.
“Not a full one, and that’s not our call. I’ll tell the Captain. You just keep an eye on it. I think she’ll put ourbest patrol on it. Punishment detail for breaking all those windows yesterday.”
Her voice was laden with irony, and the other person on the wall grinned with idle glee.
“Ooh. I’d hate to be Relc. Klbkch didn’t do anything, though. But he’s…eugh.”
The woman glanced over her shoulder and reached out to slap a helmet.
“That’sSenior Guardsman Klbkch to you, rookie. Send a street runner to tell the Captain.”
“Yes, [Guardswoman] Beilmark.”
——
In the end, Erin let the fire burn while she went to get water. The fireplace was stone, and the kitchen was stone. The odds of a stray spark walking all the way to the common room was remote. Still, she felt uneasy.
“This is how it starts, right? You leave the fireplace on while you go on a vacation for a few days, and the next thing you know, your inn’s burned down. A classic cautionary tale.”
Erin sighed as she walked along. She wondered again how much trouble she was really in. After all, she had just started a fire, true, but that was pretty basic even for primeval Humans. What could—
A patch of green moved in the grass ahead of her. Erin stared at it. Was it part of the grass? It raised its head and stared back. It wasn’t the grass at all. It was—
Somethingexploded out of the grass. Erin screamed, flailed wildly with her bucket, and fell over. The gigantic bird with leathery wings and a beak longer than her arm took off into the sky with an ear-piercing screech. She caught a flash of scales, as green as the grass it had blended in with, and the long head and beaked teeth? The young woman gaped upwards.
“Oh. Oh wow.”
Erin sat on the ground and stared.
“Is that a…pterodactyl? No way.”
It looked like it. And while Erin was only really seeing its rapidly disappearing backside, the bird had a certain…non-feathery quality to it. However, where the ancient dinosaurs Erin had seen in museum pictures were brown and plain, this bird had been a light green with red markings along its head and beak and the tips of its wings.
“Camouflaged dinosaur birds. Now I’ve really seen everything.”
Erin shook her head and got back up. She brushed off her dirty t-shirt and jeans.
“Gotta wash these sometime. But that means I’ll be walking around naked. Is that an issue? And what’s that smell?”
Something smelled truly terrible. Erin covered her nose and frowned. She cast around for the source of the smell. It was on the ground somewhere. She walked ten steps and found a nest. Erin stared down at a neat ring of dirt, trampled grass, and stones. A nest on theground? But then—she didn’t see many trees nearby, and the only other place would be those cliffs.
“Huh. I guess without many trees birds get lazy. But what a big nest. And what’s that inside—”
Erin took one look inside the nest and covered her mouth. She gagged and took a few deep breaths.
“Okay. At least I know where all the normal birds go. Inside the dinosaur-birds.”
Averting her eyes from the grisly remains, Erin turned to go. She took two steps and tripped.
“Ow.”
She got up, cradled her injured hand a bit, and wished for the world to explode. Or just her. Then she squatted down to look at what she’d tripped over. She saw asecond nest, this one much cleaner and smaller. And it was filled with big, round, pale…
“Eggs?”
——
Buckets could hold things. Ideally they held water, but they could also hold eggs. They could also hold eggsin water.
It was still a pain to haul the bucket across the grasslands, though. Erin puffed and huffed and kept up a running stream of complaints as she lugged the full water bucket along.
“People used to do this every day? This is why plumbing was invented, you know. Who puts a stream so far from an inn? What happened to a good well?”
She kept grumbling until she reached the inn. Once there, Erin had to lean against the door and pant like a dog for a while before she felt better. She noticed a sign hanging next to her nose and squinted at the faded lettering.
“Huh. ‘Closed?’ Is that English?”
It was English. Slightly stylistic, each letter carefully traced in black paint, but Erin understood it nonetheless.
“Huh. So people speak English here. Good to know!”
Then she frowned at another word painted right below it. Not English. The lettering was far more curvy, and based on her limited knowledge of Earth’s languages—it looked completely unique.
“Hold on. What’s this word?”
It looked…odd. This was clearly an open-closed sign. Erin could tell because it was on the front door, and because she flipped it over and, just as expected, it said ‘Open’ on the back.
And there was a second word right below it, in that other language.Erin had no idea what it meant; it was foreign to her. But if she had to guess?
It probably said ‘Open’ too. In a different language. Just like signs back home. And that meant—Erin felt a shiver run down her spine.
That meant there were two languages here.Two sets of writing, at any rate. Furthermore, it confirmed Erin’s suspicions.
“This was an inn once. But someone abandoned it. And they left a lotta useful stuff behind.”
She tapped her lips thoughtfully and narrowed her eyes at the hanging sign. The rope was frayed and worn, but it was still in pretty good shape.
“…Well, finders keepers.”
Erin kicked open the door to the inn and dragged the bucket inside. But she paused and stepped out to look at the sign.
It was a sudden whim. Erin flipped the sign over so it read ‘Open’.
“Now, where can I get a piece of chalk and write ‘no Goblins allowed’?”
Well, that was a question for later. Right now, Erin was more concerned about the precious water. She had the water. She had dragged the water very painfully all the way here. Now she had to find a place to store said water. The bucket was nice, but it was also sort of small and definitely not useful as a long-term container. It was leaking a bit. So where else could she put it?
Erin wandered into the kitchen.
“Well, here’s a cauldron.”
It was actually a pot, but it looked like a cauldron. It was in fact both things at once. The point was that it could store water. Unfortunately, that meant the cauldron had to be cleaned first.
Erin tried to use as little water as possible. But the pot was large, filled with dust, and the bucket was finite. She eventually ran out of water and had to make another trip back. And then another.
When the cauldron was finally full of water and clean enough to hold said water, Erin was ready to kill something. Like eggs. She stared longingly at the fresh sausage, but she shook her head.
“No. No. You deserve at least a sandwich. Or eggs and sausage.”
That would make it tasteso much better. So Erin decided to commit. She tromped back into the kitchen and stared at the grey embers in the fireplace. The fire was long dead. Erin groaned and then scowled. She pointed at the embers accusatorially.
“I’ll deal with you later. For now, I need dough.”
Dough was easy. It was just mixing stuff, and Erin had plenty of stuff to mix. But an idea struck her as she stared at her ingredients.
Bread took a while to bake. Bread needed to rise and do all kinds of complicated yeasty-stuff according to her [Basic Cooking] skill. And to be fair, that was about all she could make with the ingredients at hand. Not much you could do with a bit of flour, right? But eggs? Eggs changedeverything.
Erin stared at the flour. She stared at the butter and salt. Then she stared at the eggs. Her eyes narrowed.
“Forget bread. It’s pasta time.”
——
The mixing bowl was full of flour, a dash of salt, some water, and butter. Oil would be best, but Erin didn’t have oil, so butter would do. She grinned. This was easy. Then she cracked the egg.
A large, glistening yolk fell into the bowl. The eggs of the giant dino-birds were about three times bigger than normal bird eggs. That could make a lot of pasta. But there was just one thing different about these eggs.
“Oh. Oh god. Why are there red lines—?”
Erin covered her mouth.
“It was alive. There was a baby inside.”
Her stomach lurched. But there was nothing to throw up. Erin took a few deep breaths and tried to think.
“Right. Normal eggs actually hatch. Right. This isn’t a store, so of course they’d be living—but they must be new eggs. Not full of half-born chickens, right?”
She stared at the rest of the eggs.Right?
——
Erin wiped her mouth as she kneaded the dough. She hadn’t thrown up. But her stomach was still a bit queasy from all the killing she’d done. If that was the word for it.
“Sorry, baby dino-birdlings. But I really need to eat. And you look nice and doughy right now.”
She punched the dough ball gently. The kneading was done. It was time to roll it and slice it into nice, pasta-sized shapes.
To her credit, Erin barely hesitated when she grabbed the sharp knife again. But she did take the time to wash the blood off before she began slicing. And though it took her a bit longer to cut everything since she worked with one hand and tried to keep all her digits out of the knife’s path, she eventually had a pile of long stringy noodles ready to be boiled.
Erin held the first batch of raw noodles over the boiling water in the pot.
“Double double, boil and trouble…into the pot you go.”
The noodles fell in with a large splash. Erin yelped and jumped away.
“Hot!”
When she was finished calling herself an idiot, Erin sat back and waited. The noodles wouldn’t take that long. Then she could add some more butter, a little more salt, and feast. It was a good plan.
“Too bad I don’t have something refreshing to drink as well. A nice glass of juice would go down great. But y’know, it’s not like I…can…”
Erin stood up. She walked back into the common room and looked around.
The pile of blue fruits was right where she had left them. Erin’s eyes narrowed as she looked at them. She stroked her chin in thought.
“Blue juice?”
She shook her head.
“Nah. Blue fruit juice? That’s more like it.”
——
It was a messy process, peeling each blue fruit and then pulping the fruit into a mush. And then of course there was the mandatory trip to the stream with the bucket in order to get enough water to add to the mixture, not to mention to clean the glasses, plates, and silverware. By the time she’d made her umpteenth trip to fetch water, Erin’s arms felt like they were about to fall off. But that was okay, because she now had a drink.
“Mm! Sweet! This stuff’s like syrup! Chunky syrup! Or…a smoothie.”
Erin put the pitcher of blue fruit juice in the common room and checked on the noodles. She didn’t know how long to cook them, but she’d been taking out a strand or two every few minutes to make sure it was good. At last, she decided it was ready.
“Hm. Chewy. Tasty! Pasta is the greatest food in the entire world.”
The last thing she did was take the red sausage out of the cupboard and slice it up. She did it very finely, keeping her fingers far from the blade, but she diced the entire thing.
It had little pepper flakes inside. And the meat looked good. Erin couldn’t help but take one sliver; she resisted the urge to gobble it down and put the rest in the noodles. She might not get more for a long time.
The sausage tasted like sausage.Hot, spicy, and so flavorful it burst in her mouth. Erin’s eyes went slightly misty. It wasn’t blue fruits or—it tasted like food.
She couldn’t cry, though. She was far too hungry. Erin rubbed her eyes briskly and created a huge serving of noodles and dumped it onto a plate.
“Hm. Fork…fork! Am I missing anything?”
She felt like there was something missing. But—she brought the food into the common room anyways and sat down.
“Who knew carrying stuff with one hand was so much of a pain? I mean, everything’s a pain.”
The pasta was nice and hot. Erin felt her stomach rumbling. But something still felt off. And pain was still present.
“But it’s a better day, right? A bit of a better day.”
Erin stared at the plate. Pasta, check. Fork, check. Juice, check.
She sighed. A smile tried to climb onto her face. Her hand throbbed, but Erin kept the smile up and raised her fork. She was going to eat until she puked. Okay, maybe until she was just full. She raised the first glistening noodle to her lips.
Knock, knock.
Without thinking, Erin stood up and went to the door. She opened it as if she were at her home.
“Hi, can I help you?”
A giant insect stood in the doorway. It raised one chitin hand in greetings and opened its mandibles as its antennae waved in Erin’s face.
“Greetings. May we come in?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:24:37)
Leave a comment below for typos!
Zineb (2023-03-05T22:57:14)
« Now, where can I get a piece of chalk and write ‘no Goblins allowed’? »… I laughed so hard !
Kai (2023-03-07T02:56:03)
Same ?
Thari prasad (2023-03-08T12:39:20)
Yep ?
Qzaki (2023-04-25T01:01:42)
I am reading this chapter on April 24th on Monday.
Keel (2023-07-29T07:05:38)
I am reading this chapter on July 29th on Saturday
MrManGuy (2023-10-17T05:36:20)
I am reading this chapter on October 17th on Tuesday
Emibook (2024-03-16T08:42:08)
i am reading this chapter on March 16th 2024 on Saturday.
LuteV (2024-04-17T21:06:09)
I am reading this chapter on April 17th on Wednesday.
Crown0 (2024-04-18T14:04:19)
I am reading this chapter on April 18th on Thursday.
Stenson (2024-06-19T00:26:14)
Holy fuck its a giant cockroach
Big_Bogdan (2024-08-14T23:05:17)
I am reading this chapter on August 15th on Thursday.
Omni (2024-08-18T03:49:33)
I am reading this chapter on August 17th on a Saturday
Jenny (2024-09-02T23:55:46)
I was watching Daniel Greene’s YouTube channel the other day and he mentioned the world’s longest running novel, so I looked it up. I decided a book series that is already over 30 million words in length just had to be check out, so here I am. No idea what I’m in for but having fun so far. :)
Jenny (2024-09-02T23:56:51)
I am reading this Sept 2, on a Monday
Ryan (2024-09-06T12:47:20)
I am reading this chapter on September 6th on Friday.
Olevam (2024-09-06T23:07:21)
Same here!
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T10:28:46)
I am reading this chapter on 10th of december,2024(Monday).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.06
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-06/

A giant insect stood in the doorway. It had large, black, bulbous eyes like a bug, no pupils, just tiny facets reflecting the light, a dark brown chitinous body, almost black, and a pair of swords at its sides. A giant shell like a beetle or turtle’s covered its back, and the entire effect made the bug-man look slightly hunched.
It had four arms, each one covered in chitin but shaped almost like a Human’s, complete with fingers, and two long mandibles coming out of its mouth, shaped like pincers. A pair of waving antennae were attached to the thing’s head. No hair, no nose, no…clothing, really. Just a loincloth and a belt and a pair ofswords sheathed at its side? 
There was something shiny and metal pinned to its chest, but she was mostly just staring at theant-person in front of her.
Erin stared at the ant-creature, lost for words. Then it opened its mouth and began to speak again.
“Good evening, Miss Human. I was wondering if my colleague and I could take up a moment of your time—”
Erin shut the door. Then she bolted it. Where did she put the kitchen knife?
“You idiot. Itold you this is why I should have opened the door.”
A second, louder, muffled voice came through the door.A second bug-person? This one had a slight rasp to it, sibilant. Erin heard the two talking as she looked around. Weapon. She needed—
The Goblins’ knives were on the table. She grabbed both and tried to think. Knife. Chair? There were lots of chairs.
“Maybe it was a bad time?”
Or windows. Erin looked around. Plenty of windows. She’d jump out one if she needed to.
“Move over. Let me show you how it’s done.”
Someone knocked on the door again. Erin froze, and then went back. Very slowly, she opened the door.
A giant lizard—no, a miniature Dragon that looked sort of like a Human stared down at Erin. He had to be at least six-and-a-half feet tall.
He was huge, muscular, with scars parting the rippling scales instead of flesh. His head was shaped like a lizard’s—or a Dragon’s. No nose, again, but a snout and slitted pupils, not round. His scales were light green, and he had sharp,sharp claws on each hand. Yet he also had a very humanoid body—except for his feet, which were taloned like a dinosaur or lizard’s. Or a Dragon’s, again. He even had a long tail, which dragged on the ground behind him, and neck-spines sticking out the back of his head!
When he smiled, she saw his teeth. Pointed and sharp. Oh, and he had a forked tongue. The Dragon-man raised one claw and opened his mouth wider in a grin.
“Hello, Miss. Sorry if we—”
Erin shut the door, bolted it, and dragged a table in front of it. She could feel her heart pounding out of her chest as she pushed another table in the way. Knives were no good. He washuge! She’d have to jump out a window after all. She heard the first person, the bug-guy—he sounded like a guy—speaking drily.
“Good job not scaring her.”
“Shut up. This is your fault. I told you I should go first. I’m not a horrific Ant.”
“Yes, but I have my badge on. You have not brought yours. Again. For the eighth day in a row. Therefore, I was the most logical choice to—”
Were theytalking? Erin listened hard. Her hands were shaking so hard she couldn’t hold anything. She heard them trying the door and finding it locked.
“Now what? I do not believe breaking and entering would be appropriate at this moment.”
“What, are you crazy? Let me talk. That was just a misunderstanding caused by seeing your face. I’ll straighten all this out.”
One voice was higher than the other and had a strangeclicking quality about it. Erin guessed that was the insect’s. The other, the lizardman, pronounced his words with elongated s’s. And they were both speaking in English.
“Hello? Miss? We’re not dangerous.”
One of them was knocking on the door. Erin tried not to hyperventilate. Her eyes darted to the window. But she had to ask.
“…Are you a Dragon?”
She heard a surprised laugh from outside the door.
“Am I a Dragon? Aha. Haha. Well, that’s just—oh, Ancestors bite me. I mean, do I look like one? I’m not even Oldblood, but maybe I do. Klb, buddy, what do you think?”
“You are blushing.”
“Be quiet. I’m in a good mood now.”
The lizardman raised his voice again.
“Excuse me? I’m not a Dragon, Miss Human. I’m just an incredible Drake in service to the City Watch. Me and my idiot partner were on patrol when we noticed the smoke. May we come in? I promise we won’t bite.”
“Or inflict other forms of bodily or mental harm upon you.”
“Shut up. Are you trying to scare her?”
Erin debated. Somewhere in her mind, she was trying to decide whether she should be laughing or panicking. And if she were going to laugh, would it be funny laughter or hysterics?
She couldn’t decide. So instead—
“Um. Give me a moment. I’ll open this door.”
“Thank you very much.”
Erin dragged the tables out of the way and hesitantly unlatched the door. She opened it and stared at the insect and giant lizard again. The insect just stared at her. The lizard, on the other hand, opened his mouth and curved his lips upward. It might have been a smile.
“…Hi.”
Erin’s hand tensed on the door. The lizard guy put his hand on the door and stopped her from closing it. She tried, but suddenly the door was locked into place. He gently opened it and gave her a lazy salute with his other clawed hand.
“Sorry, sorry, Miss. We’re not here to hurt you, I promise.”
Erin hoped that was the case. She couldn’t budge the door an inch. But this wasn’t the time for flight, right? She took a different tack.
“W-want something to eat?”
The lizardman blinked.
“Um, sure.”
“Okay. That’s great.”
Erin opened the door slowly. The lizardman smiled and carefully stepped inside. The giant insect walked in too and gave her a polite nod.
“Good evening.”
“…Hi.”
The two stared around the empty inn. Erin pointed to the table while keeping her eye on them the entire time.
“Food’s over there.”
“Ooh! Pasta! This is good stuff!”
The lizardman—Drake—rubbed his hands together. The noise the scales made sounded like sandpaper. He went to sit at the table, but the insect guy paused.
“I would gladly partake of nourishment if offered. However, we would not wish to deprive you of your meal.”
“What? No. I’ve got lots of pasta.”
Erin pointed vaguely back to the kitchen.
“Let me just get a plate and…forks. Do you, uh, want a drink? I’ve got water.”
The two strangers exchanged a glance. The Drake raised one claw.
“I’ll have a glass if that’s alright.”
The ant man instantly copied him with a nod.
“I will accept the pasta and water as well. But may I inquire if you have any more meat-based dishes? Corusdeer, perhaps?”
What was a…?Erin shook her head.
“…No. No I do not.”
“A pity.”
Erin went to get the plates. She heard the two sitting and chatting idly while she went to the kitchen. There she took a moment to sit on the ground and slap herself a few times. Then she got the plates. An idea occurred to her as she was filling the cups with water, and she poked her head out.
“Here. Uh, I’ve got juice as well. Want a glass?”
The Drake blinked as she offered him a cup. He stared at the liquid inside and eyed his companion.
“Oh, thank you. It’s…blue.”
“Yeah. I made it myself. It tastes good, really.”
A moment’s hesitation and the giant lizard-man accepted it with a shrug.
“Well, I’ll gladly accept. Klbkch, you want any?”
He turned to his companion, and the other figure declined.
“I will pass for the moment. We should get down to business rather than partake of food.”
“In a moment. Let’s eat first. This looks good!”
Erin stared. Here was an opportunity. She had two creatures who could not only speak English for some reason, but were also not inclined to kill her and were eating her food. There were so many questions she could ask about herself, about where she was, about everything really.
It might be her questions would decide her ultimate fate. Probably not, but they were certainly important. But before Erin could ask any of the questions, including how a ‘Drake’ and giant ant learned to use a knife and fork, she had to ask again.
“…Are yousure you’re not a Dragon?”
——
“…So someone on the walls spotted the smoke and called it in. Since it didn’t seem like a grassfire and since we knew this place was abandoned years ago, the Captain decided to send someone to check it out.”
“To put it succinctly: we saw the fire and decided to investigate.”
The giant lizard turned and glared at his ant man companion.
“That’s what I said.”
The ant fellow replied stoically; his voice never seemed to change, unlike the boisterous lizard guy. He was—precise.
“You said it poorly. I am merely rephrasing your words for the benefit of all.”
“See,this. This is why no one else is willing to be your partner. Along with you being, y’know, you.”
“Your hurtful remarks are unnecessary. Besides which, I believe we are getting off track. We are in the presence of a member of the general public, remember.”
“Oh. Right. Sorry.”
The lizardman cleared his throat. It sounded weird to Erin; much deeper and bassier than normal. She was transfixed, as much by the surreality of having them eating with her as the fact that the ant man had excellent table manners and his companion did not—and the way they just—talked, bantered, even. It was beyond weird.
Actually,everything was weird to Erin at the moment. Not least were the two creatures sitting across from her.
Well, maybe ‘creatures’ was unfair. They were probably people. They acted like people. But they looked—
Erin stared at the lizardman’s arms. They were huge. She’d seen bodybuilders on magazine covers and terrible gym commercials, but this guy was bigger than 90% of the male population. The Human male population. And he was green. And he had scales.
He glanced her way. His eyes were like a snake’s. Or a lizard’s. She looked away hastily and glanced at the ant man. At least, she thought he was an ant.
While he wasn’t that much smaller than the average guy, the insect guy looked tiny next to his partner. But of the two, he was definitely higher on the weirdness scale. Mainly because he was a giant insect. He hadantennae.
“Miss?”
Erin jumped.
“Me? Hi, yes, me.”
The lizardman gulped down some of the blue juice.
“Sorry, but can we ask you a few questions about where you’re from? It’s pretty odd to find a Human out here, let alone in an abandoned place like this. Not that we mean to pry, it’s just that it’s kind of our job to ask these questions.”
“What? Oh, it’s no problem. Ask away.”
The insect guy leaned forwards.
“Well, to begin with, may we inquire where you come from?”
“I’m from Michigan.”
The two exchanged a glance while Erin mentally slapped herself.
“Michigan? I’m not familiar with that city. Or is it a nation…? Is that north of here? Over the mountains, maybe? On this continent?”
“Uh. No. It’s a bit further than that.”
“Oh, so are you…lost? Or travelling maybe?”
Erin shook her head.
“No, actually I got lost and—this is stupid. Why am I making excuses?”
Again, the glances were exchanged. The Drake coughed into one claw. The ant man began making notes on a pad.
“Um, I don’t know?”
Erin sighed and spread her hands on the table.
“Look. It’s complicated, and I can’t really explain. But would you believe…magic? Like a crazy, crazy, uh, teleportation spell?”
To her surprise, the two took that at face value. The Drake looked at his companion and raised both brows, but not in disbelief.
“Oh, a [Teleportation] spell? Was it a misfire or did someone target you? That’s a Mage’s Guild issue.”
“Not if they did not cause it. Intriguing. Was it a magical duel, perhaps? Some high-level spellcasting?”
The terms were flying over Erin’s head, but she did her best to describe what happened.
“Um. I didn’t see anything when it happened. I just sort of turned the corner and—look, the point is I suddenly appeared around here. And then…Dragon.”
“I told you. It’s flattering, but I’m not a Drag—oh.”
The ant man leaned forward.
“Do you mean to say you found aDragon? Somewhere around this area? And you—survived the encounter. Unharmed?”
His voice was patently incredulous. Erin blinked.
“Is, uh, that a bad thing? I mean, it’s a Dragon yeah, but isn’t he…?”
Both she and the ant man looked at the lizardman.
“Look. It’s getting sort of embarrassing. I’m not a Dragon. I’m a Drake. And yeah, we’re distantly related cousins, but Dragons are…there’s no way. That would be huge. You said you saw one? You sure it wasn’t a Wyvern? It was probably a Wyvern.”
Erin vaguely knew that word, but she shook her head adamantly.
“It breathed at me. Fire. And then I was chased by little green men.”
“Goblins. And by the way, some Wyverns breathe fire too.”
“So theyare Goblins. But—well, hold on—then I found a giant dino-bird—”
“A what?”
“A big…big leathery thing. With wings.”
“Oh, right. Those annoying things. What’re they called, Klbkch?”
The insect person looked up from his plate and replied calmly. He had a notepad open next to his meal and was taking notes. Was he writing with a…quill? And inkpot? Erin was fascinated.
“Razorbeaks. Go on, Miss.”
There wasn’t much else to say. Erin tried to summarize the rest of it.
“Well, after I got the eggs, there was a crab rock, I mean, a rock crab, and then I found blue fruits before that and…I met you two. A not-dragon and an insect. Who don’t want to eat me? Or is that after the meal?”
The lizard guy looked shocked and offended.
“Of course we wouldn’t eat you! That’s barbaric, and besides, it’s illegal. I mean, okay, sure, it happens sometimes in distant villages, but we wouldn’t do that. Right, Klbkch?”
The lizard man turned to his friend.
“Indeed. We would not violate our duty as guardsmen.”
“Your duty? You’re…guardsmen? And you…you’re K—kbch?”
The insect man raised one hand instantly and bowed slightly in his seat.
“Our pardons. We have not introduced ourselves. Allow me to correct this mistake. I am Klbkch, Senior Guardsman in the employ of the City of Liscor. This is my partner, also a Senior Guardsman.”
He nudged the Drake, and the other one looked up from sucking down a huge mouthful of noodles.
“Relc!”
The lizardman raised his glass.
“And this blue juice tastes good!”
“Indeed. And I must apologize again, but our true intent in coming here was to ascertain the danger posed here.”
Erin looked around.
“From what? Me?”
The Drake shrugged, picking at his teeth with a claw and glancing around.
“Not you, specifically. Really, it could be anything. We thought it might be a random fire or a few Goblins. If there were some stupid kids, on the other hand, we’d be dragging them back right now since it’s dangerous to stay here. Bandits on the other hand…”
Erin met his gaze in alarm. He had very yellow eyes with black pupils.
“Danger? Why danger? Is there something wrong with me staying here?”
“Well, there’s nothing wrong with you staying here. Aside from dying, that is.”
“Dying?”
Relc kicked Klbkch under the table. Erin noticed the motion and the slight impact.
“It’s just a possibility. This, uh, place is sort of bad. For your health.”
Erin looked blank. Klbkch cut in.
“The plague. This location was once a small community until everyone here died. Horribly. Admittedly, this was a decade ago, but it was evacuated and has been condemned since then.”
Erin put her head in her hands.
“So am I going to die by puking out my guts or something?”
“Actually, the plague symptoms manifested themselves as—”
Relc kicked Klbkch again.
“Why don’t you shut up and let me talk? Look, Miss Human. You’re probably not sick if you’re still walking around.”
“And not oozing.”
“Shut up. Ahem. We were just sent here to make sure no Goblins or nasty creatures started living here. We’ve got no problem with Humans. Well, at least the non-violent kind.”
“Indeed. There is no law against occupying this area.”
They both stared at her. Erin felt compelled to speak.
“Good. Thanks?”
“Right.”
“Indeed.”
“…Want another plate of pasta?”
The Drake had eaten most of his, and he looked fairly satisfied if how much he’d put away was anything to go by. He brightened up, and the Klbkch-person raised his hand politely as well.
“Oh, sure.”
“I will have another as well.”
Erin ladled noodles onto each plate. The diners were silent for a moment as each slurped down their noodles, or in the case of Klbkch, did something complex with his mouth-hole. Erin didn’t look closer.
After a while, Relc put down his fork.
“This really is quite good. How’d you make this all the way out here?”
“Oh, I found some flour and butter and stuff in one of the cupboards. It had a runey…thing on the shelves.”
“That would be a preservation spell. It is quite common among higher-class establishments.”
“But you cooked it, then? Do you have levels in a [Chef] class, then?”
Erin stared at Relc.
“Levels? Oh. No. I’ve got levels in, uh, [Innkeeper].”
He blinked at her, but idly, as if they were just making passing conversation and this wasn’t amazing.
“Oh, I see, I see. That’s convenient. Did you earn them here?”
“Uh, yeah. Every time I fell asleep I kept leveling. I’m, uh, level 4.”
“Not bad! Especially if you just got here a few days ago. Did the notification wake you up right as you were falling asleep? I hate that.”
“It did.”
“It’s very annoying.”
“Yeah. It is.”
The two looked at each other as Klbkch continued to eat in silence. Erin coughed into one hand and decided now was the time.
“So. Leveling. Classes.”
Relc blinked, then tapped at his chest with a grin.
“What about it? Oh, are you wondering about mine? I’m a [Spearmaster]. This idiot’s a [Swordslayer]. We both have levels in [Guardsman] as well, but not nearly as much as our primary classes. Pretty cool, huh?”
He grinned and was clearly waiting for some reaction. Erin hesitated.
“Right, right. Um, good to know.”
She smiled uncertainly, and he deflated a bit.
“Uh—thanks. [Spearmaster]. Me. Him—[Swordslayer]. No, it’s cool. We’re [Guards]. Yeah.”
Relc coughed a few times into his claw and glanced at her.
“And you’re an [Innkeeper], right? Got any other classes?”
“Um, no. No.”
Another quick glance. Klbkch and Relc hesitated, and the Drake shrugged.
“So four levels in…? That’s too bad. But you’re young; leveling takes time after all.”
“Okay. Right. Um. Let’s pretend I have no idea what leveling or classes are. I’m, uh, from really far away, and we have different…traditions.”
Relc and Klbkch exchanged a glance.
“…You mean you don’t level in this Michigan place?”
“Oh no, no. We level, it’s just, uh, different from you guys. And I never paid much attention in school and all that…”
This time, the look she got was ranging beyond skeptical into incredulous. Relc sat back with a frown and popped another sliver of sausage into his mouth.
“They have to teach Humans how to level?Weird.”
Klbkch agreed, although he gave Erin a look of what might have even been sympathy.
“That is unusual. I was under the impression levels worked uniformly across all species. However, I too understand the issues of communicating leveling and the system of classes. Even so, it is odd to think there is a nation that does not teach it in some way. Unless you are referring to a cultural difference in classes?”
Erin had no idea what that meant. She spread her hands on the table, looking from face to face.
“Yes. No. Maybe? Look, I level. You level. We level. Everyone levels, right? We all can level up in, uh, classes and gain skills. How am I doing so far?”
Relc nodded amiably. He was slurping down noodles with his long tongue. Erin was fascinated, although she wasn’t sure if he was being disgusting or not.
“That’s pretty much how it works. What were you confused about?”
“Um. I gained levels just from cleaning an inn. And I wasn’t an [Innkeeper] before this. So why…?”
Relc waved a claw airily.
“Oh,that. New classes without an apprenticeship, you mean? Simple. You must have satisfied the requirements for the class, that’s all. I know it’s sort of weird gaining a new class suddenly, but it happens. I knew a guy who gained four levels in [Farmer] just because he kept growing carrots in pots next to his window. Not [Gardener], [Farmer]. I guess it was because he grew lots of carrots. Leveling is weird that way.”
“So…okay, let me think.”
Erin had to massage her head while the two guardsmen looked at her in concern. Well, she assumed they were looks of concern.
“This is a world. Everyone levels in it. Humans, lizard people, talking insects, cats, dogs, Goblins…”
“Hey, what did you just call—”
Klbkch leaned forward, cutting Relc off.
“Actually, I would like to correct you on that point. While the thinking races may level, animals and even creatures such as Dragons are not capable of leveling. Which is common knowledge.”
They were giving her very, very strange looks. Erin hesitated, but she was already in too deep, so she decided she had to gain as much information as possible.
“What, really? How about Goblins?”
“They can level. Now, about what you just said. I’m not alizard—”
“Indeed. It is part of our shared past. Once, of course, all races fought with tooth and claw and magic, but then they divided. Those who decided to forsake their natures and pursue a different truth received the gift of leveling, while those creatures who stayed true to their nature kept the might of their natures instead. According to historical records, at least. It is the subject of some studies, but that is the consensus.”
“Really? So that means—”
“Hey!”
Relc’s fist smashed into the table. Every plate on the table jumped into the air, and Erin nearly fell out of her chair. She looked at Relc. He was scowling, but when he glanced at her pale face, he stopped and looked guilty.
“Um. Sorry about that. Really. But, uh, can we talk about that name?”
“N-name?”
“Yeah. You, um, called me a lizard person, right?”
“Is that wrong?”
“…Yes. Yes, it is. I’m a Drake, not one of the Lizardfolk. There’s a big difference.”
“Sorry. Sorry about that.”
“Uh, don’t apologize. Look, maybe I overreacted a bit. I’m not, uh, mad…”
Klbkch kicked Relc under the table.
“I believe it was my turn to do that. Apologize to the Human for your rudeness.”
“…Yeah, sorry.”
Relc bowed his head down low, until the neck spines along the back of his head were pointing at the ceiling. Erin waved her hands urgently.
“Oh no, no. Please don’t do that. I didn’t know it was so rude. If I’d have known, I’d have never—there’s a big difference between lizard people and Drakes, right?”
Klbkch raised one finger politely.
“Only a few differences, but the animosity between their cultures is—”
Erin saw Relc go for a huge kick, but Klbkch swung his legs up, and Relc glared at him until he was quiet. The Drake turned back to Erin huffily, and she realized this was an important issue to him.
“Shut up. I’m still sorry. But yeah, there’s a big difference. I mean, sure, Humans say we look similar, but we’re totally different. They have those neck frills, and they’re way too colorful. We build cities out of proper stone, but the Lizardfolk live near water and can breathe underwater too, some of them. They have Naga and, like, jungles in Baleros. Whereas we Drakes like drier climates. We enjoy warm sun, open spaces…”
“Nice rocks to laze about upon while we should be performing our duties.”
“You’re just an overgrown ant. You be quiet. Anyways, we’re special. Those guys are just amphibians that learned to walk on two legs.We’re related to Dragons. We’ve got special powers.”
“Like what?”
“We can breathe fire. Some of us can, at least.”
Relc sat back and folded his arms with a triumphant grin. Erin and Klbkch stared at him in silence.
“What? It’s a great power!”
“I am sure it is.”
“Yeah. That sounds amazing. Really…really cool!”
Relc nudged Klbkch with a triumphant smile of approval.
“See? She gets it. Told you it was cool.”
“Yeah, it’s awesome.”
“I feel I must mention that you, personally, cannot breathe fire, Relc.”
“Shut up, Klbkch!”
Relc looked annoyed and embarrassed at the same time.
“Only a few Drakes can do it, okay? Not breathing fire is perfectly normal. And some of us can, so there.”
He looked at Erin anxiously.
“We’re still cool, right?”
Erin grinned and gave him a thumbs up. Then she winced in regret. She’d used her bad hand. The Drake focused on the bloody bandages with a trained eye and suddenly frowned and leaned forwards.
“Ooh, nasty. What happened there? Looks like a bad cut. Were those Goblins?”
“What, this? It’s nothing, it—”
Klbkch stood up suddenly. Erin flinched, but he raised two of his spindly arms.
“Please, I mean no harm. But your hand. May I see it?”
Erin hesitated. Then she slowly extended her hand. On the outside, her bandage was grey and red with congealed blood. Some dripped to the floor. Relc winced, but Klbkch studied the injury carefully without touching it. Then he looked up.
“Again, apologies. But could I trouble you to remove the bandage?”
Erin hesitated. But then she slowly unwrapped her hand. And flinched. The pain that had been slumbering in her hand suddenly flared, and something dripped to the floor.
It was yellowish-white pus. It dripped from her wound. And the wound itself was different. Instead of the thin red line, it had changed. Parts of the injury were darker red and—Erin looked away.
Relc hissed softly. However, Klbkch made no sound. He inspected her wound for a few seconds, his antennae moving slowly, and then looked at her.
“Yeah. Um, yeah.”
Erin tried to breathe. Her hand was suddenly burning.
“It—sorry, it’s a mess. I cut my hand, and I guess it just got infected, but—”
“It is not an infection.”
“What?”
“It is poison. Of a sort.”
“You sure? It doesn’t feel like—”
“There is a fish in the rivers near here. It secretes a mucus that damages the area it touches. Such as in this case. I have seen several similar afflictions as a guardsman.”
“You have? I mean, it’s not an infection?”
Erin was trembling. The insect man held her gently.
“Please, do not be alarmed. This is treatable. Allow me.”
He reached down. Erin looked and saw him pull something out of a belt pouch at his waist. She blinked as he held up a bottle full of a shimmering, emerald-green liquid.
“This is a low-grade healing potion. If you pour it over your injury, it should heal your affliction.”
Relc opened his mouth, but the bug man turned his head, and the Drake hesitated.
“Yep. Good thing it’s meant to treat light infections too. Klb, are you going to…?”
Klbkch didn’t respond. Gently, he uncorked the bottle and held it out to Erin. She accepted it gingerly, but hesitated.
“This is—I mean, is it safe? For Humans?”
Klbkch and Relc both nodded. Relc was eying his partner, but the ant man was intent.
“Please, believe me. It will heal you.”
Erin stared into his eyes. They were compound eyes, large ones. Brown and fractal. Like an ant’s. And they were creepy as hell, but Erin decided she could still trust them.
She gripped the potion tightly in her right hand and poured it slowly over the open wound on her left hand. She gasped in shock. Klbkch instantly checked her hand.
“Are you alright?”
“It—it doesn’t hurt!”
Relc snorted gently. It sounded like a leaf blower starting up.
“Of course not. Why would anyone make a healing potion that hurts when you use it? But look at that!”
He pointed. Erin’s eyes went down to the cut in her hand. It was closing up with amazing speed. The flesh was joining together, and in an instant, the entire cut vanished. She gaped.
Klbkch plucked the half-empty bottle from her hands before she dropped it. She was too busy poking at her hand to realize, but when he’d stoppered the bottle, she turned and gave him a huge hug.
“Thank you—ow!”
“Apologies. It is unwise to hug those with exoskeletons. Please, are you hurt?”
Erin stood back and rubbed at where his pointy bits had poked her.
“No, no I’m not. And how can I—I can’t thank you enough. That—that was a healing potion, right? How can I repay you for—”
She cast around for something to give him, but Klbkch held up one of his…hands.
“Please, it was nothing. That was merely a low-grade healing potion of no great worth. Let us call it payment for the meal. Unless, of course, you object?”
Erin looked around, flustered, and shook her head rapidly.
“Oh no,thank you. I mean, this is probably worth—can I get you another plate? Or—or you could come back. I’ll feed you two again if you want—”
“I will accept gladly. But for now I am full, and I believe it is time to be going. We would not wish to intrude upon your hospitality for too long.”
Relc paused as he gulped down more blue fruit juice.
“We wouldn’t?”
His partner turned to face him, looking the same, but he lowered his mandibles and hesounded mildly exasperated.
“We are still on duty, if you recall. The Captain will be expecting a report. If we do return, we will have more time to socialize.”
Relc considered this with a nod for logic. Then he held up a finger.
“Or, and hear me out. Or…we could have more food and stay here longer.”
Klbkch stared at him until the finger lowered by itself.
“I am sure you would prefer that. But we are being paid to work, not to enjoy ourselves. Moreover, you are eating all of this Human’s dinner.”
Relc glanced at the table. He stood up immediately.
“Right. Well, let’s be going. Um, sorry about that, Miss. Here, let me just pay for the food…”
Erin tried to protest, but a scaly hand prized hers open gently and deposited several copper coins and two silver ones into her palm.
“I insist. That blue drink is really good, by the way.”
“Thanks.”
“Well, we’ll be off then. Good night to you.”
The two left the inn. Erin watched them go. The door closed, and she heard them speaking lightly about reporting back and filing…
Then she heard nothing at all. Erin went to go sit down and ended up sitting on the floor. She stared at the door. She stayed sitting for another hour in complete, stunned, gratified shock.
What just happened?
——
Relc and Klbkch left the inn. They began walking through the grass under the night sky. It was cool, but both moved quickly. Each one scanned the landscape as they walked and kept their hands on the spear and swords at their sides. They weren’t nervous, just wary.
However, they were also moving a lot faster than average to get back to the city before complete nightfall; they had to clock out and file that report. This patrol had taken longer than they thought, but they were so busy thinking that it took five minutes before Relc finally broke the silence. He turned to Klbkch and murmured.
“What a lonely girl.”
“Is she female? I could not tell with complete accuracy. She sounded so, but I have met few Humans in social settings.”
Relc nodded wisely and glanced over his shoulder.
“I can. It’s the things on her chest.”
“Mammary glands? Breasts, I think they’re referred to. Or maybe the word is tits.”
Relc hesitated.
“Really? I thought those were birds.”
Klbkch shrugged.
“That is what I heard some small Humans saying once. But she’s female. And young, correct?”
The Drake nodded slowly, frowning back at the old inn.
“Yeah, I’d bet on it. I’m not sure why a Human would be out here anyways, let alone in that place.”
Klbkch shrugged.
“Inquiring into others’ personal affairs is only a matter for the Guards while we’re on duty. Respecting another’s personal space is a principle of social interaction.”
Relc elbowed him, but Klbkch had sidled out of range.
“Shut up. She just seems lonely, that’s all. Why else would a Human female want to hang out with a Drake and an overgrown bug?”
Klbkch was silent for a while.
“Do you believe she is a lawbreaker or fearful for her life?”
Relc shook his head again.
“Even if she was, who’d hide there? You’d have to be mad, or be a [Warrior] or [Survivor] to want to live by yourself. Plus, the plague! Do I look sick? Am I oozing?”
The Drake checked himself with vague paranoia, but Klbkch shook his head.
“It was almost certainly safe as I and Watch Captain Zevara assured you repeatedly, Relc. Besides, that young woman’s presence is proof enough. She would be dead within the day if the disease were still present.”
“Bet she didn’t know. And her expression when we walked in—she’s never seen a Drake or an Ant before in her life. Well, the Ant part makes sense.”
“I would prefer that you call my species by their proper name.”
Relc ignored that. He glanced over his shoulder.
“What do you think? I bet she’s some kind of runaway or a child that got separated from her clan. Do Humans have clans? Or is it all [Lords] and [Ladies]? Maybe she’s not even from this continent.”
He waited for more speculation, but the ant man had turned his head and was refusing to speak. Relc glowered, but then grudgingly snapped.
“Fine. Antinium. Happy?”
Klbkch replied at once, as if nothing had happened.
“Her being a runaway would be most likely. I find it hard to believe any Human would wander so far into the grasslands by accident, and she did not seem to be looking for directions. Her magical teleportation story is also possible, but why would she not have asked to be taken to the Mage’s Guild? It is clearly a cover story.”
“Bastard.”
“You are correct in at least one definition of the word. But speculation is pointless in any case. We investigated the smoke, and now we can make our report. She is not breaking the law since the inn was abandoned nearly ten years ago.”
“What about the Dragon? Do you think she made that up?”
Klbkch hesitated and glanced at Relc. His pincers made aclicking sound as they came together in thought.
“She was not lying, at least not intentionally. But it is possible she was mistaken.”
“Yeah. A Dragon? Really?”
Relc laughed, and the Antinium shrugged.
“It seems more likely that she was hallucinating. However…she may have run into a fire-breathing salamander. I cannot imagine she would survive an encounter with a real Dragon. Armies would not.”
“Plus, we’d know if a Dragon lived around here. They’re pretty obvious.”
“…Indeed.”
More silence. At last, Relc summed up the contents of their report.
“So…scared Human female? Not a threat? Probably a traveller? Makes good pasta?”
“That was my assessment.”
“Right, right. Let’s tell the Captain and get some sleep. Or rather, I’ll sleep and you do—whatever Ants do to sleep. Sitting-sleeping or whatever.”
“Agreed. And it is very restful. You should attempt it sometime.”
“Pass.”
The two walked in silence for quite some time. The road back to the city was long, and in any case, they were still alert for potential dangers that might be sneaking up on them. Not that either had much to fear from most predators so long as they kept their eyes and earholes open, but you never knew.
After a long time, Klbkch broke the silence.
“So, shall we return tomorrow?”
Relc blinked and looked at his partner in disbelief. Because he had been about to say the exact same thing, and he was sure Klbkch would shoot it down.
“Oh, definitely. Right after work?”
“We may be able to fit checking in there as part of our duties if we convince the Captain it is necessary.”
Relc slapped Klbkch on the back of his shell in delight.
“Klb! That’s so devious! We can waste hours and say it was all an investigation! Now you’re thinking like a Drake!”
“I will endeavor not to in the future.”
“Go roast yourself.”
They walked on for another few minutes until Relc broke the silence again. There was just one last thing he had to bring up. He eyed his partner, looking amused, but Klbkch refused to respond. Relc indicated the empty bottle hanging at Klbkch’s belt.
“So, a lesser healing potion of no worth, huh? You know, I’ve never heard you lie like that.”
The Antinium’s voice was calm as he replied.
“Would you have had me tell her the true value?”
“No, no. It’s for the best. Mind you, I think she figured it out.”
“…Perhaps.”
“How are you going to explainthat to the Captain, huh? That’s supposed to be special-issue. We won’t even get another shipment of that quality for months, probably! All the way from Pallass once the Blood Fields are frozen.”
The Antinium was unmoved.
“I did not believe a lesser one would be worth the risk. I shall make do with a replacement, and I will deduct the cost from my pay. Besides which, it was used to protect a civilian.”
Relc rolled his eyes.
“You’re a regular do-gooder, huh? Trying to level up your…[Good Person] class? Is that a class?”
“You know fully well that I have no levels in any class of the kind. I was merely being kind.”
“Sure,suuuure you were.”
“I have no sexual attraction towards Humans. Unlike you.”
“Me? I don’t like Humans. They’re scaleless, hairy, and they smell funny. I mean, this one’s nice, but I definitely wouldn’t want to see what it looks like under those clothes.”
“Mm. It’s not very interesting. They are very fleshy.”
“Ew.”
“Indeed.”
The two walked on in silence. Eventually, Relc spoke again.
“—It’s not that I’m not interested. I have an open mind! I wouldn’t mind looking. If I was offered. They’ve got nothing on good scales, but I could get over the fleshiness. Maybe.”
“Deviant.”
“Shut up.”
The two were almost in sight of the walls now, and Relc waved up at the figures watching them. He turned to Klbkch, but the inn wasn’t even visible from here. The Drake smiled, and Klbkch nodded.
“She was quite interesting in any case. It was pleasant talking to her.”
Relc sighed.
“Yeah. Yeah, I’m glad we didn’t have to kill her.”
“Indeed.”
——
Erin sat against one wall. She was falling asleep. She wanted to run around screaming about lizardmen—Drakes—walking ants, and a crazy world, but that was passé. Besides, she’d already done that for a few hours anyway.
Her mind was swimming. Her eyes were drooping. Erin was about to fall asleep. But her hand didn’t hurt. So she was smiling.
At last her mind finally blanked. Erin’s breathing deepened, and her eyes closed.
[Innkeeper Level 5!]
[Skill – Basic Crafting obtained!]
Blearily, the young woman stared up into the darkness.
“…Just let me sleep.”
She closed her eyes once more, but she was still smiling as she drifted off.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:26:25)
WordPress says I’m leaving too many duplicate comments so this one is different.
Reply to this comment for typos!
Claytonius Rex (2023-03-05T05:57:15)
Thank you so much! This is like visiting a dear old friend that somehow only became more of what made you love them since the last time you saw them.
lisa A whiteside (2023-03-05T13:19:22)
Hi, I noticed that the healing potion healed her wound even though it was poison (“It is poison. Of a sort.”) but in later books (specifically book 7) that’s not possible. is this a mistake or was it special potion? (“Yep. Good thing it’s meant to treat light infections too. Klb, are you going to…?”) sorry, i don’t mean to nit pick buts its bothered me for a while.
Bryan (2023-03-06T10:01:51)
I absolutely love the new additions to the chapter.
The foreshadowing with the potion, Relc’s “deviancy” and the new perspectives are absolutely lovely.
Kai (2023-03-07T03:42:56)
Higher quality ones can deal with infections. Like the kind they’d get special order from Pallas. ;)
Grault (2023-03-14T05:37:38)
She wanted to run around screaming about lizardmen—Drakes—walking ants
The talking seems more notable.
ChronoMager (2023-05-21T14:39:32)
[…] the ant man had excellent table manners and his companion did not—and the way they just—talked, bantered, even. It was beyond weird.
I would suggest replacing the second “—” with “…”
Kevin (2023-07-02T22:47:48)
Ahhh I’m so happy she might have found a pair of friends in this crazy world!!
greycat (2023-07-15T19:33:10)
> Klbkch plucked the half-empty bottle from her hands
> Relc indicated the empty bottle hanging at Klbkch’s belt.
Inconsistency here — was the potion fully used up, or spilled at some point?
Sol (2023-08-02T19:40:39)
I’m reading as I listen to the audiobook… this is so fun!!! Can’t wait each day for a moment to listen!
Sambubu (2023-10-23T04:58:19)
Isn’t her arm like completely charred, why is she completely unfazed about that
Scrifty (2023-11-07T00:35:16)
They seem like pretty good people, nice to see Erin find some companionship in this whole new world~
Ken (2023-11-09T01:59:20)
It should read pried open her hand not prized. Good chapter
Omni (2024-08-18T03:26:15)
I appreciate you switching out the [Saint] class for [Good Person] with the context of future events.
Vivid (2024-09-01T03:57:58)
Has this chapter been rewritten, and if so, when? I’m rereading the book as I wait for the new chapters.  It’s really fun to return to the beginning of the story, when she was still a breezy, innocent girl from Michigan.
Stacy (2024-09-11T19:27:23)
I love this story so much. I just started reading six days ago and reading one chapter every night before bed is something I always look forward to. Im really curious to see if they are going to end up as friends :))
Middy (2024-11-03T07:34:37)
You might want to stay away from the audio book for now. The audiobook is actually made using the old version of the Wandering Inn volume 1. This is a rewrite/upgrade of that. They are planning on releasing a new audiobook for this rewritten version soon.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T11:24:38)
These guys were funny, looking forward to more of their banter

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.07
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-07/

Erin woke up with a big smile on her face.
Actually, she woke up and went back to sleep several times before the sunlight got too bright to ignore. But when she eventually got up and ate breakfast, she got around to the big smile.
It came when she was eating more blue fruit and she realized she was using two hands. Erin had to stop and stare at her left palm for a while. She poked the clean, unscarred, uncut skin and grinned.
“Healing potions are awesome.”
She sat back in her chair, flexing her healed hand. It didn’t hurt. It was amazing how much it didn’t hurt. And she owed it all to a giant ant man and a lizard…Drake. What were their names again?
“Klbkch and…Drake Guy.”
Erin sighed as the memories returned and gave her a hard time.
“Seriously. They were sonormal. But apparently I’m normal too. There are other Humans around here at least. But leveling? Classes? Am I an [Innkeeper]? Do I innkeep? How does that work?”
Then she remembered something else.
“I leveled up again.”
Erin poked her chest. She felt there should be some sense of accomplishment from within, but all she felt was vaguely full. But she remembered.
“[Basic Crafting]. Might as well give it a shot. I’m out of fruit, anyways.”
——
It was an uneventful trip to the blue fruit trees. As Erin gazed up at the blue fruits, she wondered for the first time how many there were left to eat. She counted.
“…Looks like I’ve got a few weeks before I run out. But bleh, eating just blue fruit all the time would be disgusting. At least there’s some ingredients left for pasta if I can find more eggs.”
But what would happen when her small cupboard ran out? What then?
Erin touched the pocket of her jeans and heard theclink of coins. Right, she had some money. But how much was it? And more importantly, how could she spend it? It wasn’t as if she could eat metal.
Grumbling to herself, Erin loaded up with blue fruits. It was getting annoying carrying them all by hand. She dropped a lot of them, which bruised the skin and made the fruit taste mushy. So why not try making something?
Erin stared at the ground. She had…grass. She stared at the trees. She had wood. But she had no way of cutting that wood, so it was no good. She didn’t know how to make things. Even if you gave her…rope, or string, and pieces of wood or something, Erin didn’t see how that equated to a basket.
Yet as she stared at the grass, something in Erin’s head lit up. She frowned suddenly.
“Wait a second. Maybe thatcould work. Let’s see. If I take this long grass and tie this knot here…”
Erin hunkered down and started picking the longer clumps of grass and testing their durability. She started tying knots and cutting with the knife.
Knots? Erin knew the most basic, weakest knots where you just folded two sides of string over each other and the shoelace knot, but she couldn’t tie that unless she had a…shoe. However, suddenly, she was weaving the grass together in ways she hadn’t thought of. But now that she was doing it—it was obvious. If you had big pieces of fabric, string, or grass, of course you could tie them together to form a net. And that would be the base of your basket…
It was like someone had bridged the tentative idea from what she needed with actual understanding. Erin found she had to focus on her task—she couldn’t just go on autopilot, but at the same time there was a certainty in what she was doing. And in less than twenty minutes, she was looking at a basket made of grass.
“Whoa.”
Erin held up the basket and inspected it. It was lightweight, but durable. Wide strands at the bottom wove together to form a decent mesh, and it even had a handle made of three big leaves braided together! She experimentally tossed all the blue fruits she’d gathered into it and lifted it. The grass basket pulled downwards, but the woven handle didn’t tear.
It was a real basket. Made of grass.
Was it tacky? Yes. Did she feel like she should be dancing with pom poms on a deserted island? Yes. Was that a terrible thought to have? Probably. And should she feel ashamed of herself? Erin already was. But she had a basket.
And more importantly, she had a plan.
What could you do with a basket? Well, you could eat and walk at the same time since you had a free hand. Erin cored a few blue fruits and hung on to the seed pods. Then she went looking for eggs.
It took her about an hour before she found another nest. When she spotted the telltale brown shape hunkering in the long grass, Erin stomped over, making as much noise as possible.
This time, the thing that erupted from the grass didn’t fly away immediately. Instead, the dino-birdscreeched and dove at her. Erin stood her ground, reached into her basket, and threw a seed core.
She missed.
But the flying object spooked the bird. The giant pterodactyl wavered and then flew away as Erin hurled more seed cores at it. She laughed triumphantly and rushed to grab the eggs.
That was when the bird turned around and flew at her, pecking and trying to bite her. It wasn’t afraid of the seed cores after all. And it had a sharp beak.
——
Only when she was sure that the dino-bird had gone did Erin stop running. She stopped and covered one of the numerous bloody peck marks on her arms and back and tried not to shout.
“Stupid thing.”
At least it hadn’t been bigger. Erin had managed to smack it a few times until it stopped trying to bite her face off. But that didn’t mean she’d gotten away unscathed.
Erin hissed as she pressed on another bite. She wanted nothing more than to get some cold water on them. Too bad there were more suspicious rocks in the way. Actually, there were about six of them, spaced out across the grasslands. Well, her trick hadn’t worked on the bird, but rock crabs were a different matter.
On her way back, Erin pasted two of the rock crabs with the slimy seed cores when they shuffled at her. They didn’t like the noxious liquid that splashed their shells and retreated with loudclicks. Erin wiped off the foul-smelling juice from her hands and walked past the crabs triumphantly.
——
It was just past midday when Erin got back to the inn. At least she’d stopped bleeding on her walk back. She made it halfway through the inn’s door, blinked, and threw up.
Erin stopped gagging and retching long enough to stare at the pool of liquefied blue fruit in horror. Then she was sick again. And again.
Somehow, Erin made it to the stream. It was a combination of walking fast and pausing every few minutes to throw up that got her there. She didn’t so much jump into the stream as fall into it and begin shivering as whatever was hitting her really went to town.
——
The next hour saw her kneeling at the stream, gargling water, puking it up, and watching out for the crazy fish. Fortunately, they didn’t seem inclined to get near her. Actually, she saw one swim towards her and start nibbling at the contents of her stomach as it washed downstream. That was gross.
Erin washed her mouth and hands off for the tenth time and felt the shaking and nausea stop a bit.
“What—what was that?”
Erin could only mumble as she stared into the water. She moved her head—not so much out of desire for movement as to watch for the dangerous flatfish.
The fish that had been eating her vomit was floating belly-up in the water. Erin saw the other fish were avoiding it just like they were avoiding her.
“…Poison. Gotta be.”
But what had it come from?As she lay there, the young woman tried to identify the causes. Her first thought was the pasta. The pasta, sausages…
The plague?
But no, Klbkch had said if she wasoozing she was sick. This felt like bad food poisoning. It could be the pasta. Or—or was she sick because of contact with the Drake guy? The bug-people might have horrible diseases.
Yet the fish was dead. So that felt more like it was something Erin had eaten. So, logically, she had two culprits.
Pasta made of dino eggs and sausage. Or…the blue fruits.
Given both as options, Erin knew which one she suspected. But she didn’t eat the seed cores! Were the blue fruits dangerous?
On a vague hunch, Erin looked around and saw the basket of blue fruits still lying on the ground where she’d dropped them to be sick in the stream. She picked one up and stared at it.
“You look innocent. But maybe…”
She did exactly what she normally did to eat it, except with her fingers instead of teeth. Erin delved into the pulpy fruit, resisting the urge to take a bite, and stared at the seed core inside.
It looked like it wasn’t broken.It looked, therefore, like this fruit was good. On a hunch, Erin tossed the blue fruit pieces into the stream. They sank a bit in the clear water, and she wondered if the water was bad too—she should have really boiled everything she drank. However, she had the most suspicion about the seed cores that scared the rock crabs so much.
The first flatfish had been avoiding her and whatever had killed its friend, but it apparently had short-term memory problems because it ungainly leapt and swallowed the pieces of the blue fruit she tossed into the water. Erin watched it as it spat out a bit, but apparently decided the rest was digestible, even if it wasn’t the flesh it so clearly craved.
“Okay. How about…”
The seed core didn’t crack as she gently lobbed it into the water and bobbed down the brisk current. The fish investigated it—and to Erin’s amusement, gingerly closed its teeth around the seed core and gave it a tentative nibble. It crunched down the seed core then began to spit out fragments and a bit of ugly greenish-blue from the pulp. All four eyes swung around crazily as the awkward fish shook its body in clear revulsion.
“Must taste bad, huh?”
The fish zoomed around unhappily as Erin watched. Then it grew slower, and Erin saw it open its mouth wide and then it beganvomiting the contents of its stomach up. She watched a replay of what had happened to her. Only this time—within two minutes—the fish was dead.
A chill ran down Erin’s back as she saw the second corpse floating downstream. Those fish weren’t as big as her, but that one had eatenone seed core and—she looked down at the blue fruits in horror.
No wonder the dino birds, rock crabs, or other animals, even birds and worms and stuff, didn’t try to eat them! Only she was stupid enough to try—and the Goblins. She must have beenlucky! Some of the seed cores must have leaked poison or something into some of the fruits she ate so she didn’t notice due to the sweet taste.
And then I eat too many and die. Only, I was spared because of random chance. Erin shuddered. She clenched her hands.
It wasn’t fair!Her one secure food source, good-tasting food, turned out to be poison. It was just like the acid flies, the fish, the cupboard—everything was out to get her.
Except for the two friendly [Guards], and they were gone. Erin put her head down.
“Do I just eat what’s in the cupboard and fight dino-birds? If I can’t eat the blue fruits…”
Her survival chances were dropping rapidly. Yet Erin looked at the basket of inviting blue fruits and saw them completely differently. No longer this world’s versions of apples or oranges—they were alien fruits, and she was lucky she hadn’t died eating the first one.
Glumly, Erin was about to toss all the blue fruits in the stream when she decided she could at least harvest the definitely-deadly poisonous cores as a rock crab deterrent. Then, as she was lying there, trying not to cry or puke—she heard a sound.
It sounded like—Erin sat up.
Oh no. Not now. She scrambled around and then crawled over to an incline and rolled down the other side.
Goblins.
——
The band of Goblins were six in total. Three with weapons, three with baskets of their own. In fact…they even looked vaguely familiar. One had a lot of bruises, and Erin recognized it as the one she’d slapped—mainly from the huge mark on its face.
The non-combatants were odder. They were small, wearing ragged, dirty clothes that looked far too big for them. One, for instance, had what was just a tunic for a regular person dragging on the ground, it was so short.
Those were the ones carrying baskets.Grass baskets, like Erin’s. And in fact—they had buckets too. Buckets made of what looked like…Erin hesitated as she peeked up from the lip of the slope she was hiding behind.
Shells?It looked like some kind of chitin. Not the Klbkch guy; it was too small, and too…she hesitated.
It looked like a spider shell, only hollowed and taped together with something sticky to make a crude basin. A big,big spider.
As it turned out, the Goblins were using it to collect water. They gazed around furtively as their leader poked the others and pointed.
They didn’t speak that Erin heard, only dipped their containers into the water. And—she noticed—they had baskets of blue fruit too.
The young woman realized she was occupying the exact same ecological niche as Goblins. That didn’t make her feel great, but they hadn’t seen her; for once, the unique topography of this area meant that she was less than twenty feet away and invisible unless they climbed up and saw her from above.
She hoped they wouldn’t take long to do their business. Then Erin hoped they didn’t use the stream as anything like a restroom. Or even bath, because she might be downriver of them! Then issues of hygiene and water contamination fled her mind as she heard a snarl.
One of the Goblins had found her grass basket. And spotted one of the dead fish floating downriver. It pointed at the basket, and all the Goblins looked up. Erin tensed as they investigated. She was still feeling vomit-y, but she had been healed and there were only three with knives. If it came to it—she could definitely run away and get to the inn.But what were they doing?
They were investigating the basket, poking each other and making odd gestures, again, completely in silence. Then the smallest Goblin did something that fascinated Erin.
——
The littlest Goblin hated getting water. It was heavy, and the big Goblins made her carry it. But she couldn’t fight well, and sometimes they had to fight spiders or other things. And they hit her if she complained.
They’d already gotten blue fruits, and the basket was heavy, so the little Goblin kept trying to hang it on different limbs as they went to fill the buckets. She felt like if she carried it on herback, she wouldn’t hurt her arms.
But when one of the Goblins who could make baskets saw her fraying the grass with her efforts, she hit the littlest Goblin, and the sniffing little Goblin carried her burdens in silence.
They were lucky; there was nothing hunting them when they got to the stream. After a few big mouthfuls of water, the group was ready to bring water back to the tribe and [Chieftain] when they found the basket.
That was odd. One of the warriors pointed at the basket, and all six Goblins checked themselves. Three had baskets of blue fruit, and the other three didn’t carry baskets.
But there were…one…two…three…four baskets. The lead Goblin was suspicious as the littlest Goblin looked around. There were no more Goblins gathering food, much less the blue fruits. Had one forgotten a basket?
It looked—good. Well-made. Most of the other Goblins who could craft baskets were lazy and made cheap ones because they fell apart soon. This one was nice, and the littlest Goblin wanted it.
Perhaps someone had forgotten it here. The bigger Goblins decided it was more food, and who cared where it came from? That meant one less Goblin had to make a trip to get the blue fruits.
It didn’t seem to occur to them that maybe it hadn’t come from Goblins at all. The littlest Goblin tugged at arms and pointed urgently.
What if it came from the inn? What if the Human had made it?
The others laughed silently in her face. Humans had real baskets of wood and metal! The littlest Goblin thought it made sense. The Human girl had been around the blue fruitsand she was at that inn.
But they just poked her, and since her idea was stupid,she had to carry both baskets and the water.
That was so unfair the littlest Goblin protested. She swung her fists wildly at one of the warriors, who kicked her into the stream. She had to swim out before the fish got her and lay, sulking, on the ground. However, her defiance had worked, and the grumbling warriors decided one of them would carry the water bucket.
But she still had to carry both baskets! The littlest Goblin decided that was the best she could get, so she rolled around in the grass as one of the older Goblins who gathered fruits all the time decided to inspect the mysterious extra basket. Instantly, the [Gatherer]’s face twisted up, and the older Goblin snapped at the littlest Goblin to come over and help.
Some of the fruits were bad. What idiot Goblin had harvested these?
——
These Goblins were weird.
Erin had expected to get a movie-like scene from the Goblins where they said ‘let’s eat the Humans’ or something evil. But they weren’t like that. They didn’t…speak.
But they did pantomime a lot and seemed to be able to read each other’s minds. Could Goblins do that? They also seemed bored, and the ones with weapons were bullies! They’d kicked the little one into the stream, and now they were taking her basket!
Bulliesand thieves. Erin bit her lip. She could remake that basket, but it was the first one she’d made! Plus her food was being taken. Her—admittedly poisonous blue fruits.
Okay, they could have that, but please, leave the basket! Erin watched as an older Goblin with what looked like a spider’s claw shoved through her black hair as a…hairpin?…investigated the basket.
Then she seemed upset and made a loudeigk-ing sound, the first sound any Goblin had really made aside from chortles or grunts, and beckoned the little Goblin over. To Erin’s indignation, she began tossing blue fruits out of the basket!
The little Goblin seemed as confused as Erin. She poked at one and got a swat from the older Goblin as she tried to add it to her collection. What was wrong with the fruits on the ground?
——
They were all poisonous. The littlest Goblin recoiled from one bad blue fruit and wiped her claws on her wet shirt as the [Gatherer] sorted the basket. It wasn’t just experience that told the older Goblin this.
It was her Skill.
[Detect Poison]. These were bad, these were bad…by the time she sorted the basket, only the fruits without a trace of badness were left. Half were scattered on the ground. She’d have to re-check these ones when they got back to the cave, too.
The littlest Goblin peered at the bad blue fruits. They didn’tseem bad to her. But she knew if you ate the nasty thing inside, you’d be dead in an hour. Bad, stomach-screaming, frothing-mouth-death.
One of the bad ways to go, even worse than spider-death. No, actually, spider-death seemed worse still, but both hurt a lot.
The little Goblin was curious, though, so as the older Goblins decided to take a break before heading back to their cave, she produced a tiny little knife and began opening the fruits. If these were bad…
She begged for one blue fruit, and since they had extra, all the Goblins ate one from the extra basket. They didn’t have to tell the [Chieftain]. The littlest Goblin cut them up and removed the seed cores and tossed them into the stream, and got to stare at the good blue fruits and the bad ones. She cut up three bad ones and then smiled.
Oh!That was how it worked. 
The bigger Goblins watched the small Goblin out of the corners of their eyes. She was very young and very odd. Even for small Goblins. She’d smile or stare at things that made no sense, or collect rocks and sticks.
And now this? The littlest Goblin didn’t seem interested in eating the poisonous fruit, which was good, so they took a brief nap then left. They didn’t understand why she smiled. Nor did the young woman watching until she crawled out of hiding.
——
Erin felt like throwing up again by the time the Goblins had gone. Not because of them stealing her basket—the poison was still in her system.
However, she was curious as to the little Goblin’s antics. She clearly knew the fruits lying all about were bad—and just as obviously, at least one of the Goblins had identified the poisonous ones.
“Huh. Can Goblins smell poison? Wait…wait. That Relc guy said they have Skills. Do you get Skills to tell if there’s bad fruits? [Bad Fruit Detector]? No way.”
But how else would the other Goblins do that? Super-smell? If so, she should have picked up on Erin. The young woman didn’t know, but the little Goblin’s actions made her most curious. So she squatted down and stared at the pieces of blue fruit.
She was confused, not only by the blue fruit analysis, but by the Goblins. They were definitely horrible and had tried to kill her at least…five times, but they had tools like buckets and even—it seemed—Skills. So they had classes, like Klbkch said.
They were still monsters, and Erin supposed even monsters had to eat. But even so—it was odd. Now, what had the little Goblin, the one wearing all rags, found?
Perhaps it was nothing, but Erin had seen that smile of satisfaction. She peered for a long time at the ‘bad’ blue fruits.
“I think I need to figure out what a good one looks like.”
Unfortunately, the Goblins had eaten their snack and so Erin had to go all the way back to the blue fruit trees—carefully, watching out for crabs and Goblins. But since they’d already gone foraging, she reasoned they were unlikely to come back.
She did a round trip with an armful of fruits and sat, creating another basket by the river as she tried to cross-reference her fruits with the bad ones.
The problem was, Erin had no idea whether the fruits shehad were good. She wished she had whatever the other Goblin had—a way to tell what was safe or not. That was a Skill, and Erin began understanding how valuable it was.
“I could eat mushrooms! Or…maybe not mushrooms because ick. Or bugs? Wait—that’s just as bad. Plants, then. Herbs. And blue fruits. Okay—this fruit and this fruit and this fruit.”
She took three random ones from her collection and put them in the ‘I have no idea’ pile. Then she organized the ones the Goblin had opened in the ‘definitely probably deadly’ pile. After that? It was a game of spot the differences.
Embarrassingly, it took Erin over fifteen minutes, far longer than the little Goblin, to identify what the distinction was. And then of course she tested it by tossing it into the stream and watching which fish really seemed unhappy as the bad fruits ran through their system. Erin supposed many creatures that weren’t…people? Mammals? They seemed to suffer the effects of blue fruit poisoning a lot faster than her.
“Aha! So that’s all it is?”
Mystified, Erin looked down at the bad fruits. She saw almost identical interiors to the good ones. You couldn’ttell if the seed cores were smashed and mixing with the fruit from the inside.
At least—not from the coloration of the blue fruit, or even the smell. Taste? The blue fruits were so sweet it’d be hard to identify, and by that point, you were putting poison in your mouth.
The trick had taken Erin a long while to figure out, but since she knew the little Goblin had seen something, she’d eventually begun prodding the pieces of fruit, wondering if it was just noticing bits of seed core.
Then she saw the difference: all the bad blue fruits were wet. To be more precise, they were actively juicy. Blue liquid ran from the pieces, whereas the other blue fruits refused to produce juice except where they were torn and only when you chewed or mashed them up.
Erin had noticed when she made the blue fruit juice that she’d had to reallymash the pieces up to produce the juice. However, in the bad sample group, the fruits were actively watery.
“Maybe the poison is making the fruit like—wetter? Or it’s making the fruit weaker?”
Or perhaps the poison waskilling the fruit rind outside the seed. The longer Erin stared, the more the bad fruits seemed to be actively going through rapid decomposition before her eyes. Turning to mushy, nasty pulp.
The blue fruits, the good ones, felt more like oranges in texture; you had to bite and extract the sweet. The bad ones were actively mushing due to the seed cores being compromised.
Erin’s test group of evil fishies certainly seemed to back up her findings; they kept eating the pieces of blue fruit she tossed to them, but they began spitting out the bad ones after a few bites.
As if they could also tell.Well, Erin didn’t want to rely on Goblins and biting fish for evidence of poison, but she had to admit—they seemed to have figured it out.
She gathered up all the remaining blue fruits thoughtfully and put them in her basket. She’d check them all before eating back at the inn. And she’d eat very, very sparingly of the ones that looked good, juice-test or no.
If she got sick, hopefully it would only be lightly. Erin didn’t relish that, but she’d rely on pasta and eggs over the blue fruits for a few days. At least she had something to try.
“And all because of that little Goblin. Huh.”
Erin stared back at where the Goblins had been. That was the most pleasant encounter she’d had with them—mostly because they hadn’t known she was here. Then a thought occurred to her, and her face fell.
“Aw. No. Oh no. Am I…dumber than Goblins?”
——
The longer than expected outing had one benefit. Erin was mostly over her food poisoning bout as she returned to the inn. She still had a vague desire to retch, but it was mostly gone. Erin climbed up the hill, shuddering at how close it had been. She’d gotten off lucky, she supposed. It had only been an hour or so of feeling terrible. If it were actually serious—
Erin had to stop and smile. Serious? Back when she hadn’t been struggling to survive, oh, three days ago, being that sick would have ended up with her in bed for the next week.
“And I’d have a team of doctors feeding me pills by the pound too.”
She laughed softly. Then her smile vanished. Erin covered her face with her palm.
She trembled.
And then she walked on. It was getting dark. She couldn’t stop yet. Whether or not she knew it—she was in too much danger.
Something was watching her. And waiting for nightfall.
——
The key to distracting oneself—from the factsand the resulting overwhelming emotions—was motion. Erin moved around the inn and kept busy. She cleaned the vomit off the floor, washed the plates as best she could with some of the water, helped herself to a bit of pasta, and brought out more plates and silverware to the common room. Then she stored the eggs and blue fruit away in one of the cupboards, went upstairs, and cleaned a few rooms. She was moving, but really, she was waiting.
“They said they’d visit. But did they mean that or are they busy? Either way, I can always make more pasta and save some for later, right?”
She had a pot full of hot pasta in the kitchen, and she’d served and eaten her own plate of buttery noodles with blue fruit juice before she realized it was dark. Hopefully, Erin stared out one of the windows, but the grasslands were empty. The sky was so amazingly vast, the stars so numerous. It was beautiful, frightening. Erin would have loved to stare at it if she were at home, yet what she was really hoping to see were two figures. But she didn’t.
“They must be busy.”
Erin sighed to herself. But it wasn’t that early in the night after all. She could wait.
The young woman sat at a table, her stomach full, her clothes torn and dirty, her eyes drooping. But every few minutes, her eyes flicked to the stout wooden door. She was waiting.
——
Senior Guardsman Relc stretched in his chair in the Guard’s barracks. It wasn’t too crowded in the early evening, most [Guards] having checked out already or begun their evening patrols. Those who remained in the building were almost entirely Drakes, aside from a few tall, furry, humanoid guards. And they were all busy with their own tasks.
There was only one exception to the two species in the Watch barracks, and that was him. Klbkch. Relc cast an irritable eye over at the large, hunched insect hovering over a table next to him. Klbkch was industriously writing in a large ledger, pausing every few moments to dip his quill into a pot of ink.
“Are you done logging out for the day yet?”
“Almost.”
Klbkch made a precise notation with a quill on a sheet of parchment. He glanced up, and his dry voice was devoid of exasperation by most standards, but Relc could tell his partner was annoyed. It was the subtle clues, like the way Klbkch stared at him with two arms crossed.
A lot of the new [Guards] couldn’t tell anything about Klbkch—not that they got near him. He was Antinium, and even if he was Senior Guardsman Klbkch, everyone knew who he was and what he represented. But then—this was Liscor, not the army or another city.
Liscor was unique, so you actually had a guardsman duo of Relc and Klbkch. The Antinium clicked his mandibles, and his voice was annoyed.
“There. I have signed us both out. Again.”
“Great. Thanks. Now, wanna go check on that Human? I hear—”
A female Drake shouted at Relc from across the room. She was nowhere as large as Relc, and she wore chainmail and a sword at her hip as she stomped up to him.
“Senior Guardsman Relc, belay that! There’s a brawl in the marketplace. Get over there and stop the fighting!”
He sat up andgroaned. Klbkch turned as the Drake pointed. She had light blue scales, almost cobalt, and bright yellow eyes. She also had her badge of office pinned to her chest and—whenever she was talking to Relc—a vexed glare. Right now, the vexation was for the idiots fighting. Relc protested.
“What? Some idiot had to start a fightnow of all times? We were going to go back and—”
“Shut up and get moving! I need everyone there, now.”
“But—we’re signed out—”
“We’ll count your hours later, move!”
The Drake strode off, already snapping at another patrol who rushed for the door. Relc stayed where he was for a moment, mouth open in protest. Then he swung himself to his feet.
“…Jerk.”
Klbkch was already signing them back in and checking his gear. He sighed but nodded to Relc. Despite his grumblings, the [Spearmaster] was on his feet fast.
“A pity. Let’s be on our way.”
They headed for the door, and the rest of the [Guards] called for the brawl fell in behind them. They had clubs, truncheons, and shields; neither Relc nor Klbkch went for their spear and swords. Relc made one huge fist and glared at the female Drake in disgust.
“What a pain. Let’s smack some scales-for-brains quick. Maybe we’ll still have time to go to the inn afterwards.”
Klbkch shook his head slowly. He was calculating and reminded Relc of the obvious.
“You know we will be called upon to go after those who got away. And there is damage assessment, guard detail, investigating any burglaries during the violence…”
“Aw.”
“Do not fret. The Human will not be going anywhere.”
“I know, I know. But I was going to eat more pasta and—”
“Relc!”
The angry shout made Relc wince and cover the two holes on the side of his head. The female Drake was pointing as she headed back for the second floor.
“Alright, let’s go. Man, I really hate Captain Z.”
That was his name for her. Klbkch looked reprovingly at Relc as they marched out the doors.
“Don’t insult the Watch Captain while we are within earshot.”
“She can eat my scales. Let’s go and get this over with.”
“After you.”
They sighed as they got back to work. Relc sighed even louder because his stomach was grumbling and he’d promised it pasta. Late shifts and overtime pay, which was nice. But for what? He’d have to grab a snack at midnight, not a proper meal, and visit the inn tomorrow. It was okay for Klbkch; he had no life. But Relc?
He just hoped the [Innkeeper] wouldn’t stay up waiting for him.
——
Erin sat at the bar counter in the inn and waited. All was perfect.
Well, all was sorta perfect. It was at least acceptable. She had a basket of the blue fruits, more pasta in a large pot, and she’d even drawn a fresh bucket of water from the stream. She had very nearly spotless plates and silverware, and, all in all, she was ready for some guests.
If they’d ever arrive. At first, Erin kept checking the door every few minutes, even going to the window to see if she could spot them. But then she found herself leaning back in her chair, waiting—it had been a long day of walking back and forth on top of being sick. She supposed she was still recovering, because she was very, very tired. She wasn’tthat hungry, but she wanted to wait for Relc and Klbkch.
Eventually, Erin’s eyes drooped. Her breathing slowed. She fell asleep while dreaming she was still waiting and awake. She was counting blue fruits with the little Goblin when—
Thump. Thump.
Erin woke up with a start. She raised her head and looked around groggily. It was dark. The inn had gone from faint light to no light in what felt like a heartbeat. The set table was almost shrouded as she sat up.
They never came. Or wait—what was this?
Thump. Thump.
Something was at the door. The pounding was low and steady. Erin wiped the drool off of her chin and got up from the table. She must have fallen asleep waiting. But here they were. She stumbled over to the door and shivered.
Odd. The nights were somewhat chilly, but right now it was actually cold. Actually, it wasn’t just cold. It was…frosty?
The door’s handle was covered in a thin layer of ice. From behind the door, Erin sensed something chilling, and she could feel a cold draft blowing from beneath the crack. Or was that the shivering sensation running down her spine?
Thump.
Erin jumped back from the door. That wasn’t knocking. Something was hitting the door. Hard.
“Hey. Who’s there?”
She wished her voice wasn’t so wobbly.
“A visitor.”
Was it a whisper? No. It was more like an echo. It sounded like a loud voice coming from thousands of miles away, and it had an unearthly quality to it. No voice could be so deep, so spine-chilling.
“Um. We’re closed. S-sorry.”
The something on the other side of the door…chuckled. It was probably a chuckle. It was wet and gurgling.
“It matters not. I require sustenance. Food. Provide that to me, and I shall be on my way.”
Food? As in the fleshy variety? Erin shuddered.
“I don’t have any. Go away!”
“I will not be denied. Open this door or face my wrath.”
That was enough for Erin. She backed away from the door.
“I’m warning you! Come in and I’ll, I’ll…”
She looked around desperately. It was too dark, and she’d forgotten where she’d put the Goblins’ knives. Weapon. She needed a weapon.
“Do not anger me further. If you refuse my simple request, I will—”
She didn’t wait to see what the voice would do. She could guess. Instead, Erin ran to the kitchen. She needed a weapon. A knife, a piece of wood, a spatula,anything.
Erin’s hand had found the handle of a pot when the scrape of wood made her breath stop. She’d forgotten. She’d been waiting for Klbkch and his friend. So that meant—
The door was still unlocked.
Somethingwas pushing the door open. Erin sprinted back to the door and threw her weight against it. She knocked back whatever it was, but she couldn’t close the door fully. It was in the way.
“This is unwise. Your insolence will only bring about more punishment.”
The creature hissed at Erin. She could hear it right outside the door. It was pushing, trying to get the door open. But Erin was fueled by pure fear, and she somehow managed to keep the door where it was.
“Mistress. All I ask for is a bit of food. Provide me that and I shall be on my way.”
The skeletal creature reached its hand through the doorway. Something dark dripped down out of its bones. It splashed against the wood and vanished. Its face was—that wasn’t a Human’s skeleton. It was a mask of elongated bone, as long as Erin’s torso. Two jagged nostrils revealed something wet and fleshy, moving in time to the voice behind the bone.
“I do not wish to become angry.”
Her hand was on the cooking pot. Her heart was dead in her chest.
“No.”
“No?”
The skeletal monstrosity seemed to recoil. It pushed the door further open, and something noxious wafted in. It smelled like decay, like worms rotting in an unmarked grave. The monster pushed harder, and Erin’s feet slipped.
“A pity. But I will have you provide me with sustenance nevertheless.”
Erin seized the door and tried to close it, but the creature hurled it open. She fell back and stared in horror.
Athing with too many bones and pieces of flesh gazed down at her. It gave off a ghastly smell, and crimson light flashed from its eyes. A rotting monstrosity garbed in bone. A dead being of some eldritch horror whose ‘arm’ jerked and twitched as it wriggled towards her, brown rot and decay and mildewed skin.
“Give me what I desire. Or I shall—”
Erin screamed and hurled the pot.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:26:40)
Reply to this comment with typos!
Bryan (2023-04-11T15:26:45)
I love how Erin is so polite but when pushed she either punches, kicks, or throws anything at you. I wish more protagonists were like that.
Scrifty (2023-11-07T01:06:09)
Lmaooo

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.08
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-08/

It was instinctual. The black metal pot flew through the air even before the creature finished speaking.
“What the—”
Before the creature was struck by the flying pot, it made a very uncharacteristic, very Human, verysurprised sound. After it was struck by the pot, it didn’t make any sounds at all.
The image of the gigantic, skeletal creature wreathed in slime and darkness vanished in an instant. Erin stared as the much more normal figure of an unconscious young man dressed in grey robes appeared on the ground. He was unconscious and already had a big bruise forming on his forehead. She stared at him. She stared at his dirty robes and the flicker of light on the tips of his fingers as the illusion faded.
“…Huh.”
——
The young man was dreaming. Maybe he was dreaming of something nice. Maybe he was reflecting on his life so far and how it had led him here, or his past mistakes. Either way, the bucket of water woke him up.
“What—who dares—?”
The young man sat up, rubbing his head. Erin stared at him. He didn’t seem very mage-like. Or that impressive, for that matter. He had pale skin, brown, unkempt hair, all unwashed and fairly filthy. His fluttering eyes were grey-green, but when they focused, they were sharp as they flickered around and then looked up at her.
He actually didn’t look that bad, although he certainly looked thinner than strictly necessary. What was most off-putting was his smell. A rancid odor that contrived to combine personal body odor with a foul sewer stench. Actually, that smell was probably his clothes, which didn’t look like they’d been washed. Ever.
The mage stared up at Erin and blinked. She stared back.
“So. You’re gonna hurt me if I don’t give you food, huh?”
Erin stood up and cracked her knuckles. It really hurt, but she tried not to let it show. The young man raised one finger and pointed at her. It was only slightly trembling.
“You struck me?Me? How dare you! I will have you know I am a mage of great power, and I will not be—”
The mage cut off quickly as Erin lifted the cast-iron pot up with one hand.
“This. This is a pan.”
Erin waved the metal pot in front of the young man’s head. She saw him glance at it and then colored when she realized her mistake.
“In fact, good Mistress, that is in point of reality—”
“If I say it’s a pan, it’s a pan. The important part is that I’ll hit you with it if you try anything.”
“Oh really?”
The mage sneered at her. Erin took offense to his tone instantly. His voice sounded sort of educated, precisely enunciating each word, but it was acerbic. Sneering was the default mode to his voice. The young man’s gaze darted about, first to Erin, then around. He eyed her pot, but then he lifted one hand. Erin recoiled as the young man’s gaze seemed to brighten. She felt something change and panicked.
“Hey, stop that!”
He ignored her and mumbled something. At once, he vanished. He was gone! A booming echo reverberated throughout the room, wrathful.
“Behold my p—”
Erin swung her pot in the space where the mage had vanished.
Clong.
“Ow!”
The mage reappeared, clutching at the side of his face. Erin raised her pot again, and he raised his hands defensively.
“Try that again and I’ll hit you harder.”
He shielded his face, backing up, but he stumbled on his robe and nearly fell down. He was most likely dazed from two blows to the head, so he raised his hands and sniffed loudly. Despite his situation, he adopted a lecturing, superior tone as he lifted a finger.
“Now look here, there’s no need for violence, Miss. I can see that you are no ordinary plebian fool but anextraordinary plebian. Believe me when I say that is a high compliment from a practitioner of the arcane such as I.”
Erin glared.
“I know what plebian means.”
His mouth opened, and the young man’s supercilious expression turned to worry.
“Ah.”
“One more insult or stupid little invisibility spell and I’ll break something.”
The mage looked surprised.
“You—you could tell it was an invisibility spell?”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“What else could it be? I’ve played D&D.”
The mage blinked at her. Then he muttered to himself in a not-quite whisper.
“How astute. She’s quite intelligent for an [Innkeeper].”
Erin glared. He coughed and avoided her gaze.
“Ahem. Well, I shall be going. I am—terribly sorry for all that. It was just, ah—a spell which I—desperate times make fools of us all. And clearly, not you. Which is why I shall depart and not trouble you again.”
He made a show of standing up and brushing down his robes. Quite a lot of dirt and grime fell to the inn’s floor. Erin stared at it and glared at him harder. He swept her a deep bow and gave her a charming smile. Or what he probably thought was one. The young man reached into his robes, and she lifted the pot, but he held up his other hand hurriedly.
“My apologies, good [Innkeeper], for all these misunderstandings. Please accept this recompense for your wasted time.”
He reached into the pocket of his robes and produced a few bronze coins. He made to offer them to Erin, but when she made no move, he placed them on the table.
“So. You’re paying me for trying to scare me and steal food?”
The mage gave her a winning smile. It did nothing to wipe away Erin’s scowl.
“Harshly put, good Mistress. But yes, I would like to make amends. Let us be quits with no further unpleasantness! Or violence. And I am sure this payment is quite acceptable, is it not?”
Erin stared at the four bronze circles, which he grandly placed next to the bronze coins. She glanced up at his face. He looked entirely reasonable, even apologetic.Her face was impassive and betrayed no emotion whatsoever.
“You’re sweating.”
He began dabbing at his forehead with his robe.
“Am I? Terribly sorry. Let me just, ah…”
Three more coins appeared in the palm of his hand with a flick of the wrist. It looked like a sleight-of-hand trick. A pretty bad one, at that. Erin stared at the seven coins. Not one was silver. Hadn’t Relc given her two silver coins for a meal? She changed her grip on her pot for more striking power.
“Some people don’t like being threatened by a giant skeletal monster from hell.”
“I-I see?”
The number of coins on the table didn’t change. Erin stared at him.
“Some people would take violent offense to being scammed.”
The young man blinked once.
“Ah, this is understandable. But may I remind you that traditionally those who practice magic are beings of great power that should not be crossed?”
Erin wanted to fold her arms, but she kept the pot raised.
“Yeah, and they have fragile bones. I’m sure mages are really scary when they’re far away, but wands aren’t good at blocking frying…pots.”
The mage licked his lips, but his face remained calm.
“Fair point. Let me just amend my fee.”
A silver coin appeared in the palm of his hand. Erin narrowed her eyes and said nothing. Another silver coin appeared, and then a third.
She crossed her arms.
Three more silver coins joined the small pile. The mage was definitely sweating now.
“I, uh, hope this is sufficient, good Mistress. I am of course willing to pay any dues to—to make amends, but I’m slightly low on coin at the moment.”
Erin kept staring.
Very reluctantly, he reached into the belt at his side. He pulled out a gold coin and held it up.
“Would, ah, this do?”
Erin relented a tiny bit. She picked up the coins in his hand without taking the gold coin. She thought she heard him sigh in relief, but his face remained impassive. He was still sweating. She eyed him and nodded to the table.
“You know, I just wanted to see what would happen if I kept on staring at you.”
He tried to hide it, but his eyes widened a moment in what might have been shock or outrage. The young man sniffed and then coughed into one sleeve.
“Ah. Of course. Well, as a practitioner of the mystic arts, I feel it is always wise to be…generous.”
Erin’s face told him how much she believed that. She frowned at the coins she’d taken.
“It would certainly save time. And you know if you paid for everything, you wouldn’t have to try to scare people to get what you want.”
Another sniff, as if she were speaking nonsense. He flicked his fingers dismissively.
“Ah, but money is so…mundane. Where would the enjoyment in life be without variety?”
“Uh huh. And you provide that by threatening people with illusions?”
“Only on occasion. And I quite understand your irate feelings. However, since I believe all is settled, I shall just…”
He edged away from her and towards the door. Along the way, his stomach rumbled and his ears turned red, but he kept walking. Erin sighed and came to a rapid decision.
“Where are you going?”
His shoulders hunched, and Erin saw his hand tighten on the door handle.
“Well, if you have no further need of me…Idid pay for my misdeeds, after all. Rather handsomely, I might add, given that no harm was actually done except to my person. So I won’t intrude any fu—”
“Come back here and I’ll feed you.”
He turned around and blinked at her. Erin was already going into the kitchen for a plate and cups.
“Here. Blue juice and some blue fruit. I’ve also got pasta, but I need to warm that up first.”
Erin set the cup and plate down and added three blue fruits on top of it. She expected the mage to dig in immediately or make a snarky comment, but he just turned pale.
“Ah. Am I supposed to eat this?”
“Yeah. It’s food.”
“And I suppose if I don’t, you hit me with that pot, correct?”
He eyed her warily. Erin eyed him back.
“What are you talking about? I’m giving you food. Are you allergic to the color blue or something?”
Once again, the face of her guest seemed caught between wanting to say something and wanting to bolt. He pointed gingerly to the blue fruit.
“Are you aware that, ah, this fruit is poisonous?”
Erin paused, the blue fruit halfway to her lips.
“Poisonous?”
He smiled at her, his face a shade paler than before.
“Highly. The core of the Amentus Fruit causes painful death within hours if eaten. While the outer rind is safe for consumption, the inner seeds are toxic. You are aware of this, right?”
“Um. I am now? I mean, I figured that out earlier. These ones are good. I’ve checked them.”
The look he gave her said that he didn’t believe her. The lookshe gave him told him that he could eat her food and she didn’t really care if he was poisoned or not. He gulped.
“I see.”
“…Want one?”
The mage eyed the blue fruit apprehensively.
“Do I have the option to refuse?”
Erin sighed.
“Look, it’s safe. I’ve eaten tons of them. Just eat around the core and you’ll be fine, okay? I figured out how to check for good ones. See?”
His was very ripe, non-mushy, and when Erin took a bite to show him, she was sure it wasn’t contaminated. Still, her odd guest made no move towards the plate. He steepled his fingers and gave her a genuinely fake smile.
“Shall we just say I accept your word? I wouldn’t dare question your authority on the subject, good Mistress, it’s just that—”
“Oh comeon.”
Erin stomped into the kitchen and grabbed a knife. The mage flinched when she reappeared with it, but she grabbed one of the fruits and began cutting the outer shell of fruit away. She left the seed core on the counter and shoved the diced fruit into a plate. Two more fruits went the same way before sheplonked the plate down in front of him. 
The seed cores were perfectly intact, too. Whereas the bad ones she’d found had shown hairline cracks when she’d explored the insides. That little Goblin was on to something.
“Here. Totally non-poisonous food ready to be eaten. Happy?”
She glared at him. He gingerly picked up a slice of blue fruit and regarded it apprehensively. He looked ready to refuse, but then both he and Erin heard a loud sound.
It was a growling beast that almost made Erin look for a monster—until she realized it was his stomach. The young man turned beet red, and Erin almost laughed at him. He hesitated, then the fresh food in front of him seemed to do in his last resolve.
“I suppose the toxicity would be acceptable if it were just the fruit. Well then.”
Gingerly, he bit into the fruit and chewed. After a few seconds, he swallowed and took another bite. His eyes widened, and he began chewing vigorously.
In under a minute, the plate was empty and he was wiping the blue dribbles off his mouth with a corner of his robe.
Erin set down a plate of steaming pasta in front of him.
“You’re hungry, aren’t you? Well, eat this.”
“My thanks.”
And it even sounded like genuine thanks. Erin guessed he had been fairly hungry. Actually, now that she looked closer, his robes did seem to hang rather thin on his frame. And if you factored in the dirtiness and general smell he was now giving off, she guessed he was in pretty rough shape.
Still, he ate with all the vigor and energy of two men, so she supposed he was still okay. And once she’d refilled his plate, he slowed down. After a while, he stopped, probably to let his stomach expand, and regarded her.
“So, if I might inquire, what is a delicate flower of effervescence doing in such a locale?”
Erin glared at him.
“Are youtrying to sound impressive or do you actually talk like that?”
He drew himself upright and looked indignant.
“How rude. My advanced lexicon and diction is merely a result of my education, not a façade that—”
“Stop it. You sound like an idiot.”
His eyes narrowed, but Erin’s glare out-glared his own. He snapped back testily.
“Fine. I suppose there’s no use attempting to impress anyone who actually has the rudiments of an education. But my question remains: what’s a young g—woman like you doing out here alone?”
His voice was no less haughty and condescending than before, but at least he wasn’t dropping seven-letter word scores every other sentence. Erin decided that was worth a few more seconds of forbearance. That didn’t mean she had to be polite, though.
“I got lost.”
He raised an eyebrow.
“Lost? It takes quite some skill to wander this far into the Floodplains. Or are you a local? I very much doubt you are, though.”
“Floodplains? What are you talking about?”
The mage waved a hand around lazily.
“This area is known as the Floodplains of Liscor. It’s because of a lovely natural phenomenon of the geography and—but you aren’t from here, if you don’t know about this area. But I would have guessed as much since you are Human. As far as I can tell.”
“I am completely, 100% Human, thanks. And why does that make a difference?”
“The locals don’t like Humans that much. Which is a fact anyone in a hundred miles would know. This is the border to the Drake lands to the south. But you…didn’t know that, did you?”
He gulped down a few more noodles while watching her. Erin’s mouth opened, and he frowned at her.
“You truly didn’t? Well, well. A traveller who doesn’t know anything about where she is…teleportation spell? Amnesia magic?”
Erin blinked at him.
“How’d you guess? Actually, you’re only half-right, but how’d you guess?”
He shrugged.
“It’s common. Well, not common exactly, but it’s the only explanation I can think of. Back in the Academy…it was not an unheard of phenomenon. I suppose you could have also been carried off by one of the local avian species, but they tend to drop their prey and chew their bones.”
Erin shuddered.
“They grow that big? No; don’t tell me. I don’t want to know. But you’re right. It was a teleportation spell. Or something. It didn’t feel like a spell, but…”
“And you’re an expert on [Teleportation] spells? I see.”
This time, the sneer in his tone was a bit too pronounced. Erin’s hand twitched towards the pot.
“I’m not. But I’ll just bet those kinds of spells make a flash of light or a weird sound, right?”
He looked reluctant.
“…Perhaps.”
“And anyways, I didn’t see any idiot in robes waving a wand around and shouting ‘abracadabra’. And there aren’t wizards where I—I mean, I’m sure it wasn’t a…I just turned the corner and here I was.”
Erin trailed off, but the mage’s eyes were suddenly filled with interest. He leaned forwards in his chair.
“Really? You just turned a corner and you were in a completely different place?”
“Yeah. It’s been fun and games ever since.”
He sat back.
“Fascinating. That has to be a very high-level phenomenon or artifact. Seamless teleportation without any visual cues and even sensation at that range? Not even our Archmages could…fascinatingindeed.”
“Fascinating as in ‘I know what spell that was?’”
The mage caught himself and looked up. He hesitated, then shook his head.
“No, no. I have no clue what kind of magic would be capable of that, if any. That sounds like a spell which—well, suffice it to say I know of only a few living mages who might evenattempt such a feat. But if you were the target, it still makes no sense. Why would anyone waste such a powerful spell on someone as mundane as…as…”
“Me?”
He avoided her gaze and wiped his mouth on his sleeve, which arguably made his mouth dirtier.
“Yes, well. I see you’ve established yourself quite nicely. This is—is quite a lovely establishment you’ve founded. Very quaint.”
“It’s not mine. I just found it and somehow became an [Innkeeper] by cleaning up around here.”
“Indeed. That is quite often the case. However, you seem to have taken to it well. This area is inhospitable to most Humans.”
“Thanks, I guess. But if it’s so lousy—and it is, I totally know—why areyou here?”
He blinked at her.
“Me?”
“Yes, you. I told you why I’m here. What’s a raggedy mage doing scaring people for food?”
He swept his robes around himself defensively.
“My physical appearance has nothing to do with—”
“Just answer the question.”
He looked uncomfortable.
“I, ah, came here to expand my horizons. This part of the continent—well, the local collection of city-states are quite hospitable to those people trying to avoid undue attention. Besides, food is plentiful if one has certain skills.”
“Like pretending to be a horrible monster?”
The young man was having a real problem looking anywhere near Erin. He flushed slightly and twiddled his thumbs together, then cleaned his plate with a fork.
“One does what one must to survive.”
She looked at him.
“I suppose one does. Does it make you feel good, stealing from innocent people?”
Her words turned his face bright red. He set down his fork and pushed his empty plate back. The mage looked up at Erin, and his eyes focused with sudden anger.
“You would not be so quick to judge if you knew more about the people you’re defending. Especiallythis city.”
The young woman hesitated only a second, but then put her hands on her hips.
“Maybe not. But then again, the only two I’ve met were quite polite, paid for their meal, and didn’t try to threaten me when I first met them. Whereas the first Human I met was you.”
Again, Erin and her guest locked eyes. This time, he broke away first. He got to his feet with a swirl of his robes.
“I see I’ve overstayed my welcome. Well, your meal was quite adequate, good Mistress. Please accept my heartfelt gratitude.”
He probably meant to stalk away, but Erin barred his path.
“Here.”
She offered him two blue fruits. He hesitated.
“Take them. You look thin, and maybe if you eat them you’ll stop bothering other people. Thank you for your business. Come by again and I’ll feed you. Try to scare me and I’ll hit you harder next time.”
He blinked at her, but accepted the fruits anyways.
“Um. Thank you.”
They stood there awkwardly for a moment.
“It occurs to me that I never asked your name.”
“Me? Oh, I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. And you are?”
The mage took a step back and gave her an elegant bow. Erin stared at the blue stain on the sleeve of his robe.
“Pisces, practitioner of magic, student of Wistram Academy, specialized in the Elementalist and Illusionary schools of magic with additional competencies in multiple spell schools.”
Erin raised an eyebrow.
“Good for you. Got a hobby?”
He hesitated and put one hand on the doorknob. The mage gave Erin a long look and murmured.
“…Necromancy.”
He closed the door as Erin stared.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:26:47)
Reply to this comment with typos!
Thari prasad (2023-03-08T13:45:49)
So good! Very funny. Funnier than the first time
Hope (2023-03-08T19:58:00)
Pisces is my favourite, at least one of them!
Grault (2023-03-14T06:52:00)
Fish man! I was hoping she would immediately call him that.
Grace (2023-12-08T23:50:31)
Plebian should be spelled as plebeian. Though I would agree that the former spelling makes more sense than the official one.
“Now look here, there’s no need for violence, Miss. I can see that you are no ordinaryplebian fool but an extraordinary plebian. Believe me when I say that is a high compliment from a practitioner of the arcane such as I.”
Erin glared.
“I know whatplebian means.”
Ryan (2024-09-09T15:46:50)
‘Necromancy’  eyes emoji
Travis (2025-12-07T11:07:45)
What was he doing with the coins? That was confusing me.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.09
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-09/

At some point, Erin slept. At some point, Erin woke up. These were minor details. What mattered was the sound.
Knock. Knock.
She tried hard to ignore it. But it kept going and going, waking her up from her peaceful oblivion.
After a while, the knocking was too much to ignore. Erin opened her eyes and sat up. It was far too bright in the world. And noisy.
Someone was knocking at the front door. Thelocked front door. Erin thought about going back to sleep, but the knocking hadn’t ceased for the last few minutes. It was the kind of knocking that said the person on the other side knew there was someone to bother, and they would develop the cadence and volume to be annoying if they did this for an hour straight. So, at last, Erin reluctantly got up and opened the door.
She greeted the knocker with the world’s hugest scowl, like she would her mother waking her up early after a late-night study session.
“What do you want?”
Pisces the friendly mage gave her a brilliant smile.
“Greetings, good Mistress. I was wondering if I could impose upon you—”
Erin shut the door. After a few seconds, she opened it.
“Fewer words. Get to the point.”
The [Necromancer] looked haughty—but then caught himself as an audible little growl escaped his stomach. He coughed delicately into one sleeve.
“Um. Very well. Are you open today?”
The [Innkeeper] actually turned around blankly.
“Who?”
“You. This establishment.”
“Here?”
Pisces blinked a few times. He spoke very carefully, pointing at the ground and enunciating each word clearly.
“Is this place open? Do you provide sustenan—food? I pay, I eat?”
Erin finally caught on and glared blearily at him. She thrust the door open further.
“It’s early. Yes, I guess I am open. Come in.”
She stomped inside. After a moment, Pisces followed.
“I would like to peruse your menu if I m—”
Erin’s glower cut him off. She came back with four blue fruits and tossed them on the table. Pisces stared at the fruit and opened his mouth. He looked at Erin’s expression and amended whatever he was going to say.
“If I might trouble you for a knife and fork—”
She slapped them down on the table and walked away.
“And a plate?”
Erin’s service came with a huge frown. But he did get the plate. She would have liked to go back to sleep, but the sounds of Pisces shifting and theclink of silverware on pottery was too distracting. Instead, she got her own blue fruit and started a fire to warm up her pasta. She munched on the sweet fruit in dour silence.
Outside, it began to rain.
——
Rain. Rain fell down from the heavens like hail. Well, actually it fell like rain, but these were bigger drops that fell a lot faster and harder than normal. The hammering of rain against the rooftop was nearly deafening.
Nearly. Behind her, Pisces set down his knife and fork and sighed loudly. Erin wished he weren’t here. It wasn’t that she disliked company; she was starved for it. She just wished her company wasn’t him.
“That’s a lot of rain.”
She was talking to herself, but he seemed to take it as an invitation to speak.
“It happens quite often. A natural weather phenomenon, you know.”
Erin turned and glared at Pisces. He raised both eyebrows and held up his cup.
“Another drink if you would. My cup has run dry.”
“Where did you find—stay out of my kitchen.”
“I would be only too happy to. But I fear I was quite parched, and if you would be so good…?”
Erin’s eye twitched. But she went and got a cup for herself as well. She didn’t pour his drink, but rather set the pitcher of juice on the other end of the table so he had to reach for it. She glanced out the window and saw, well, nothing.
Even the darn mountains had been obscured by the kind of rainfall that made you hope your gutters were clear back home. Erin could barely see ten feet into the downpour. She shivered; that kind of onslaught was one thing in her home or indoors, but this inn felt a bit too—fragile. Pisces, for himself, seemed quite glad he was here, not anywhere else. Erin turned to him and gestured outside.
“Does it rain like this a lot?”
He took his time replying, and when he did, his voice was distinctly self-satisfied, lecturing. Almost like a pompous college professor—not that Erin had ever gone to any classes, just been accepted.
“Seldom. It is a seasonal weather pattern to rain like this in the spring. Fall downpours like these are an aberration. Normally, I would not hazard a guess at how long the rain would fall, but someone has been interfering with the weather. So we’ll have a brief storm, that’s all. Hardly anything as memorable as magical rain.”
That statement was loaded. Erin took the bait because she had to.
“Interfering with the weather? How? And what do you mean—magical rain? Like what?”
He smirked at her. She noted with displeasure that he was already on his second cup of blue juice.
“With magic, how else? Some shortsighted fool must have cast a localized weather control spell. Impressive, I suppose, but clumsy in execution. As for magical rain—have you never observed glowing rain in any color? Magical typhoons? Ah…raining toads?”
Erin glanced back at the furious downpour—it did indeed seem to be lessening already.
“Rainingtoads? Doesn’t that only happen when a tornado picks them up?” 
Pisces hesitated. Erin turned back just in time to see his look of surprise covered by an attempt at banal amusement. He made a show of taking a sip from his cup.
“Ahem. Of course, that is how the phenomenon actually occurs. But the impetus is largely magical…I see you know your way around some natural events. This particular storm will not be raining any creatures, however. It truly was someone simply sending unwanted rain our way. It may be a scandal, although given how the Drake cities squabble—I detected it from the south. Perhaps as far as Pallass.”
Erin had no idea what Pallass was, but other cities of Drakes? She leaned too-casually on the table, now giving Pisces her full attention.
“Wow, that’s far, right? Wouldn’t you have to be a pretty powerful sorcerer to do that?”
“The term is mage, good Mistress.”
“The name is Erin, idiot.”
He smirked, already cocky again.
“Aha. Accept my apologies. But if you are referring to one of my exalted brethren, mage is the best term to use.”
Erin stared at him. He didn’t appear abashed in any way.
“You don’t have wizards or sorcerers or…warlocks? Witches? You’re all just mages?”
Pisces flicked his fingers haughtily, then decided to wipe them on his robes instead.
“I did not say specialization is absent from the magical world. Rather, shall we say that those are titles for mages who meet certain requirements? A [Wizard] is an arcane researcher and true student of the arcane arts. Such individuals are similar to myself, but prefer to study the mainstream branches of magic. [Sorcerers], on the other hand, are quite simplistic and refer to those who use no spellbooks and have little formal education. [Warlocks] obtain their powers from other sources such as summoning, while [Witches] practice alchemy along with specialized schools of magic. Their…verypeculiar magic, which is so rooted in folklore. Nevertheless, [Mage] remains the generally accepted title to refer to all those who practice magic as a catchall moniker…”
He trailed off. Erin was staring at him. Pisces gave her a confident smirk. She raised her eyebrows.
“Okay. So you’re saying [Mage] means anyone who uses magic. Next time, just say that.”
His face visibly fell. Pisces moodily stabbed at a piece of blue fruit.
“You asked. I was merely fulfilling my role as a guest.”
“Good. For you. So what, a—mage did this?”
He shrugged.
“Yes. And it’s not as if this is a particularly difficult task. I realize it may look so to the uninitiated, but a spell like this could easily be cast by a level 30 [Mage]. Less, I suppose, if the individual were specialized.”
“So…?”
“As I said, not that impressive. Many mages could cast a spell like this.”
“Can you?”
Pisces paused. He chewed slowly, looking past Erin.
“My specialization lies in other areas.”
“Like dead bodies.”
The young man’s jaw tensed ever-so-slightly. Erin saw his thin frame—and he was thin and hungry, judging by how fast he’d eaten her blue fruits—shift in his chair. Pisces glanced at the door and avoided Erin’s gaze and drained his cup.
“Merely another branch of magic, good Mistress Erin. I note you don’t have the same aversion as a less-informed fool. Let me assure you—”
Erin stared at him. She opened her mouth, but then the door slammed open. Both Erin and Pisces turned as a wet, dark figure sauntered into the inn and threw his arms wide.
“Good morning everyone! Weird Ant behind me, friendly Human, and—oh.”
Relc strode into the inn, beaming, then visibly did a double-take when he saw Pisces. The [Necromancer] jerked in his seat, then froze. Klbkch closed the door and bowed slightly at Erin.
“Please pardon our intrusion. Is this establishment open for business?”
“What? Oh. Yeah.”
Erin scrambled for words. Relc was still staring at Pisces, who studiously ignored him as he refilled his cup. She smiled at Relc, glancing at Pisces.
“Hey, you two! Klb—Klbk? It’s been a while. I guess. But come in. Or come in more. Have a seat. Want something to eat?”
“If you would be so kind. Thank you, Miss Erin. It isKlbkch, but you may refer to me as Senior Guardsman if that is simpler.”
Klbkch wiped his feet and stepped over to a table. Relc was still staring. He frowned at Pisces then jabbed a claw his way before eying Erin suspiciously.
“You multiplied. Can Humans do that?”
“What? Oh no, that’s just Pisces. He’s annoying, so ignore him.”
Erin waved Relc over to a seat as she went to the kitchen for plates. Relc kept staring until Klbkch kicked him and motioned him to a seat.
“I believe staring is considered rude in most cultures. Sit down and cease your rudeness.”
Relc glared and sat, rubbing his leg. Klbkch turned and nodded to Pisces.
“Please excuse my companion’s lack of tact.”
Pisces waved his fork airily, but Erin, poking her head out of the kitchen, realized the young man was no longer smiling. He had pushed his chair back from the table, and he kept glancing her way. It didn’t stop his mouth from running, though.
“I paid no attention. The plebian masses are a burden to be endured; I bear no ill will to the misinformed or ignorant for their rudeness.”
Klbkch and Relc exchanged a glance.
“Indeed. It has been nice to make your acquaintance.”
“Humans. They’re so—”
Erin reemerged from the kitchen, trying to hold a pot of hot noodles and several plates with only two hands. She interrupted the two.
“Do you guys want pasta or blue fruit?”
Relc broke off, coughing.
“Ah. Eh. Um, what I meant was—”
Klbkch raised one hand politely as he kicked Relc subtly again.
“I would be delighted to try the blue fruit. I believe my tongue-tied partner would like some as well.”
“Right. Food. I’ll have some.”
Pisces waved his fork again.
“And me. A second plate and a refill of my drink, if you would.”
There was something so presumptuous about his tone that Erin scowled. She slowly walked into the kitchen, put the pot back down, and then came out. She jabbed a thumb over her shoulder.
“You want pasta? It’s in the kitchen. Get it yourself.”
Pisces’ outragedsniff at the discrepancy in service was ignored. Turning her back on him, Erin smiled at Relc and Klbkch.
“So, um, hi again. It’s been a while. Klb…Klbkch and…?”
Klbkch nodded while Relc looked expectant.
“Um. Uh…”
“Relc.”
Klbkch murmured softly. Erin beamed desperately.
“Relc! Right, right.”
“What? How come you remembered this idiot’s name and not mine?”
Relc looked aggrieved. Erin blushed.
“Um, sorry.”
The Drake leaned over the table, frowning. He looked bigger today, or perhaps it was being able to contrast him with Pisces. Relc was over six feet tall without the long neck spines that ran from the back of his head like a thin mohawk. He was also, Erin realized, wearing all-leather armor, and today, he’d leaned his spear against the table.
He even had a shortsword at his side and a dagger and a belt with two glowing bottles and a few pouches.
Belt pouches seemed like a style in this world, because Pisces had them—and so did Klbkch. Although—Erin noticed now—the Antinium had twoswords sheathed at his waist. And two daggers.
Wow, they were armed.Was this the level of police in this world? Then again—if that was the case, Erin supposed they were just regularly armed. But it might be why Pisces kept glancing at them. He had no weapons, she noted, just a stick at his side.
Wait, was that a wand?Erin turned and stared at it, but Relc tapped the table, interrupting her train of thought.
“Aren’t I the better-looking one here? What gives?”
Erin turned and gave him an embarrassed smile.
“Sorry. It’s just—uh, you know. I’ve got a bad memory.”
“Really?”
“…No. Sorry. It’s just been a busy two days.”
“Oh.”
He looked deflated. Erin tried to cheer him up.
“Relc! I’ve got the name, now. And I’ve got more pasta. Well, it’s old pasta, but it still tastes good! And more blue juice. And blue fruit! It’s, uh, not poisonous if you only eat the outer bit.”
“Ooh, pasta!”
Relc perked up instantly. Erin went to fetch the pasta and placed two steaming plates in front of the two.
“My thanks.”
Klbkch nodded at Erin, and both began eating. Around mouthfuls, Relc eyed Erin and then Pisces.
“So, how’re you doing? Level up again?”
“Actually, I did. Right after you two left.”
“Ooh, congratulations! Did you get a new skill?”
“[Basic Crafting]. It helped me make a basket out of grass.”
He chuckled knowingly.
“That’s quite useful! Most craftsman and artisan classes get that early on. I guess [Innkeepers] are sorta like that, right? Got to take care of the inn, repair windows, fix tables, and all that.”
“I guess. I haven’t ever tried that, and besides, I don’t have a hammer. Actually, I’ve never swung a hammer in my life.”
“Well, you’ve got the Skill for it, so it’ll be a breeze. And you can buy a hammer no problem. Just head down to the city, and you can get a good one for only a silver coin or two. Tell you what, if you’re ever in the area, I’ll help you get one at a discount.”
“Really? That’s really generous. Thank you.”
Erin smiled hesitatingly at Relc, who grinned back at her as he slurped down a noodle. Klbkch set down his fork and nodded at his companion.
“Not entirely. I do believe my companion would earn a small fee for directing any business to his associates.”
Relc glared at Klbkch. He tried to kick him, but the Antinium had scooted his chair back too far. They were both sitting fairly wide of the table, Erin realized. Oddly so.
“Shut up. Do youhave to ruin everything I say?”
“I am merely pointing out the truth.”
“Well…stop it.”
Erin had to smile as the two began bickering. However, she was the only one amused. Across the inn, Pisces drained his mug andplonked it down on the table.
“If we’re done with the lovely chatting, my glass is empty. Isn’t attending to one’s customers part of my service?”
Erin glared. Relc glared too. Klbkch—well, she still couldn’t read the ant man’s expression, but he definitely gave off a silent air of disapproval.
“Nice customer you’ve got here.”
“Yeah. Hey—shut up!”
Pisces raised his brows.
“How discourteous. I believe I shall bring my business elsewhere next time.”
“I don’t want it anyways. Besides, you tried to rob me last time. You’re here on sufferance because I feel bad for you.”
He sighed and rolled his eyes heavenward. Erin sniffed and debated whether she should refill his glass anyways, but felt a sharp poke in her side. She screamed and jumped.
“Sorry.”
“Don’t—don’tdo that!”
Erin rubbed at where Relc’s claw had poked her. He looked startled at her reaction and actually apologetic.
“Sorry. Again. But…you said rob? As in, that guy over there tried to rob you?”
Relc’s voice was a low hissing whisper as he glanced over at Pisces. He needn’t have bothered, though. Pisces was still engrossed in his cup. Erin grinned maliciously and whispered back.
“Yeah. Last night, I was visited by a scary monster. But when I hit it with a pa—pot, it turned out just to be him. So I got him to pay up for scaring me. That covers all the food he ate, I guess.”
“The fee was extorted under duress.”
“Shut up! You’re lucky I didn’t just toss you in the stream and let the fish eat you!”
Klbkch and Relc exchanged a glance. Relc gave the Antinium a slow nod, and Klbkch returned it. Relc turned a goggle-eyed gaze back to Erin.
“And…you let him come back for breakfast?”
“Well, it’s not like he’s dangerous. Just annoying.”
“And you didn’t think to report him to anyone?”
“Like who?”
Erin stared blankly at Relc. He stared at her. Klbkch finished his plate of noodles and set down his fork. Then he stared at Erin too. She looked at the [Guardsmen] and slapped her forehead.
“Oh.Oh. I forgot. And besides, you weren’t here yesterday.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Very true. Our absence was most lamentable. But allow us to perform our duty now. Incidentally, Mistress Solstice, the pasta was delicious.”
“Yeah, it’s great! Hold on.”
Relc grabbed the fork and started shoveling the pasta in his mouth. He was able to cram nearly half the plate down his throat in one huge gulp and munched down the rest in seconds. Erin stared with fascinated horror and a tiny bit of envy as he gobbled.
That done, Relc exchanged a glance with Klbkch. Then he turned to Pisces.
“Hey, you!”
Pisces looked up with a scowl. He glared at Relc and made an irritableharrumph.
“Do you want something? I don’t do magic upon request. If you seek a certain spell, I would be happy to discuss my remunerations…later.”
“Really?”
Relc grinned in his seat. He shifted, exposing one huge bicep, as he moved his right arm towards his spear. Erin felt a prickle run down her spine. Wait. What was…was what she thought about to happen? No way. No—
“How about you do the magic spell where you turn into a monster? I’dlove to see that. Or better yet, do you have a spell to get out of trouble? Because you’re going to need one now.”
Pisces’ face went blank. His eyes flicked to Erin and then back to Relc and Klbkch. Erin saw his jaw tense, and then he smiled at her. A glassy, empty smile. She felt a pang in her chest, and she didn’t know why. Only that the slightly supercilious look in his gaze had turned to something blankly hostile. No…resigned? As if he had expected…
The young man made a show of standing up, dusting off his robes.
“Ah. I see the good [Innkeeper] holds a grudge. Well, I’m not sure what she told you two, but I assure you, I have compensated her more than adequately for my…mistake. It’s nothing two soldiers need concern themselves with.”
“Oh, but it is, it is! And you’re wrong, by the way.”
“About what?”
Relc exchanged a glance with Klbkch. He grinned. Or rather, his mouth opened and he showed Pisces his teeth.
“We’re no soldiers. We’re [Guardsmen]. And we’ve been looking for the bastard who’s been robbing homes with illusion spells.”
“Ah.”
For a second, Pisces was very still. Then, with a surprising burst of speed, he sprinted for the door. Erin saw his legs move—then heflickered forwards.
It was like he teleported! One second he was there, the next, five feet away, lunging for the doorknob! But he stumbled, nearly falling over himself, arms flailing. He would have still gotten out except for how fast the two [Guards] reacted.
Relc kicked himself back from the table as his right arm snatched the spear. That was why he had been sitting so far back—he whirled the spear up andthrew it in one motion. Erin was only aware of a blur of movement and the whoosh of air past her face. She screamed, and his spear blew past her ear, but it didn’t strike Pisces. The spear flew between his legs as he tried to grab the doorknob and tripped him up. He sprawled to the ground as Relc pushed his chair back. 
Klbkch was already on his feet. Like Relc, he’d given himself plenty of space. He didn’t draw his swords, just strode over to Pisces and put one arm in a lock. Another of Klbkch’s arms held Pisces’ head down.
“Do not move. You are under arrest for intimidation and attempted theft. Remain still. Any sudden moves will result in bodily harm.”
With one arm, Klbkch dragged Pisces up. The mage didn’t struggle as Klbkch deposited him back in his chair. Relc grinned at Erin as he picked up his spear. Pisces was panting, looking from Klbkch to Relc with clear unease.
“Good throw, huh?”
She tried to answer and croaked.
“Y-yeah.”
Relc’s eyes widened slightly.
“Oops. Sorry, did I scare you? I forgot normal people aren’t used to that. Don’t worry—I never miss when I throw.”
Erin kept looking at Pisces. His eyes darted around the room, but Klbkch was standing right over him. She nodded slowly—what were they going to do with…?
“I’m sure. I’m sure. And I’m not scared. Just—surprised.”
“Good, good.”
Relc patted Erin gently on the back. She nearly fell out of her chair but caught herself on the table. He didn’t notice. Relc sauntered over to Pisces and grinned down at him.
“Gotcha. Tried to run from me, did you? No one ever gets away.”
He looked over at his companion.
“Klbkch, got anything to tie him up with?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“Alas, I did not anticipate an arrest, and my gear is signed out at the barracks. I am without manacles or spell-bind rope. We shall have to be attentive with its lack. Unless Miss Solstice has anything to bind him with?”
Klbkch looked at Erin. She spread her hands. So there was a prison? In the city she’d never been to?
“Uh, no. No, sorry.”
“A pity. But we shall do without.”
“Indeed you will. This is an affront!”
Pisces tried to push Klbkch away. His face was pale and sweaty, but he still maintained his haughty tone, if slightly strained.
“I am completely innocent—utterly so. These baseless accusations are false and—”
“You are lying.”
Klbkch said it flatly and without a hint of doubt.
“[Detect Guilt] is a basic Skill most [Guardsmen] get. I can sense your guilt, which is enough for me to justify this arrest.”
“Plus, we already know all about you and your crimes.”
Relc folded his arms and grinned even wider. His teeth were yellow, and very, very sharp.
“We’ve been looking for you, Mister Mage. Or should I say, the scary creature that threatens travellers and people living by themselves? You’ve been stealing food and money for nearly a month. There’s even a bounty on your head, which I’d love to collect.”
Erin stared at Pisces, who’d turned a paler shade of white, but Relc wasn’t done.
“Okay. Here’s what I’m thinking. Me and my friend here will drag you out back, beat you with sticks or rocks for a while, and then drag you back to the city for a reward. Then we’ll give half to our lovely innkeeper here. Sound good?”
Pisces’ smile was strained by now, and he shifted, but Klbkch was leaning on his shoulder, pressing him down in his seat.
“Actually, I would prefer—”
“Too bad!”
Relc cracked his knuckles. Erin, who had been staring in fascination and horror, raised a hand.
“Um. Isn’t that wrong?”
“Wrong? Why would it be wrong?”
Erin searched for words as Relc stared at her blankly.
“Aren’t there rules? Like, rules against police—guardsmen hurting people once they’re caught? Like…like no beating someone once they’re on the ground?”
Relc stared at her. He turned to Klbkch.
“Do we have rules like that?”
Klbkch let go of Pisces to scratch at his head. He stepped back, but kept one hand on the hilt of his swords as he talked, keeping Pisces well within range.
“I believe that may be a Human standard.”
“Oh, good. I got worried there for a second.”
“Yes, we wouldn’t want to ruin the enjoyment of mindless thugs like yourself.”
Pisces sneered at Relc. He seemed incapable of keeping his mouth shut even when it was for his own good. Relc made a fist, and he flinched.
“Hold on, hold on. We don’t need to beat up Pisces. Like I said, he onlytried to rob me. And I already hit him with a pot. What’s this about beating him up?”
Erin grabbed Relc’s arm. It was instinctive, but once she touched his scales, she nearly jumped away. His skin, or rather, scales, were surprisingly cool and easy to grip. But it felt so alien to Erin that she was quite unnerved. It made everything seem frighteningly real.
Relc glanced at Erin and peeled her off gently. He was so strong that he broke her grip effortlessly with just two of his fingers.
“Don’t worry, miss. We’ll do the punching outside where you don’t have to see.”
“Or—or you could not. Isn’t that what nice guardsmen do? You could just arrest him and skip the punching, right?”
The Drake nodded with a blank, uncomprehending, cheerful look on his face.
“Yeah, but he called me a common thug. I want to punch him for that.”
“Well—he’s a jerk. But I mean, you’re a guardsman. Insults like that are ten a penny.”
“Ten a what?”
“I believe she is saying insults to our position are quite common.”
Klbkch clarified. He looked at Erin, who shrugged awkwardly and gave him a sheepish smile.
“What?”
Relc seemed slightly hurt. He looked at Erin with his eyes narrowed slightly. But rather than angry, that somehow made his face look sad.
“No one insults me regularly. Except Watch Captain Z and Klb, come to think of it. People like me. Everyone likes us. We’ve got a special job.”
“But one you sign up for, right? I mean, sure, it’s a great job, but—it’s just a job, right?”
Erin faltered. Relc was staring at her in disbelief. His tone rose in indignation.
“It’s notjust a job. It’s a highly prestigious job! Not just anyone can be part of the city guard, let alone a Senior Guard.”
Erin blinked.
“Really? I thought you just…signed up.”
Relc scoffed. He turned to Klbkch.
“Signed up? Can you believe this?Humans.”
Klbkch was unimpressed. He carefully munched piece after piece of blue fruit.
“Perhaps if you explained our function more properly there would be no need for outrage. Clearly, the nature of guardspeople differs culturally. I thought Humans did it quite similarly in the north, but…elaborate, Relc.”
“Right, well. It’s still not—okay.”
Erin crossed her arms. Pisces sneered and took another swallow of juice from the table. He began mumbling to himself, but Erin, Relc, and Klbkch ignored him.
Relc sighed. He scratched the spines at the top of his head.
“Look, I’m not sure what Humans do, but in our city, the city watch isn’t like mercenaries or personal bodyguards. We don’t just sign up. We have to be voted in.”
“Really?”
“Really. See, we’ve gotta get at least fifty ordinary citizens to vouch for us before we’re sworn in. And to become Senior Guardsmen like us, you’ve got to get at least four hundred. Impressive, right?”
Relc grinned and pulled something out of the belt at his waist. He showed Erin a crimson badge edged with gold and striped twice with purple. It was shiny. It had the logo of a city, well, a stylized city, over…Erin squinted. Was that water? Little wavy lines. It was quite beautiful, and she had to guess it was costly.
“Nice. So that’s your official badge?”
The Drake polished it on his front as he placed it back in his belt pouch.
“Yeah. We’ve got to keep it on us at all times. Some guys wear it on their chests, but it can get ripped off. Besides…”
He tapped his scaly arm.
“Doesn’t stick so well on scales. Anyways, we’ve gotta pay a fine if we lose it, so why risk it, right? I only need it when I want to prove who I am or pull rank, anyways.”
“Fascinating. But it’s still the elevated status of a common enforcer when all is said and done, isn’t it?”
Pisces sneered at Relc. He seemed full of confidence all of a sudden. Relc glared, making another fist the size of a brick.
“You’re still under arrest. I can hit you. It’s only because I’m being considerate of Miss Solstice here that I don’t. But I will. If you don’t shut up.”
Eyebrows raised, Pisces drew a finger across his lips.
“Pardon me. I would not dare to interrupt such august personages such as yourself. Please, proceed.”
Erin sighed, and Klbkch made a sound that sounded quite similar. Relc, on the other hand, just scratched his head.
“Right. Good. Anyways, we’re the ones with weapons, and you’re just a [Mage]. Not a high-level one either or you’d be teleporting away.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Or destroying us in a number of ways. The lack of lightning falling from the sky or [Fireballs] confirms this.”
Erin, suddenly quite nervous, edged behind a table. Herwooden table and the wooden inn.
“You sure about that?Really sure, I mean?”
Relc grinned at her. It was a grin with entirely too many teeth.
“Don’t worry, Miss. He’s no threat or we’d have taken him out when we first realized who he was. He looked more dangerous than he turned out to be. You see, both of us can tell if we’re in danger or the enemy is strong. This idiot couldn’t even use [Flash Step] properly!”
The [Necromancer] turned beet red, but Erin was fascinated.
“You can do that? Like—sensing each other’s power levels?Really? How?”
The Drake’s mouth opened, and he eyed Klbkch, who scratched at his antennae. However, Pisces interrupted with a huge sneer of his own.
“A keen observer would discern his opponent’s weaknesses and strengths and make assumptions based on their actions and ability. These two, on the other hand, are just using a Skill.”
Relc eyed him. So did Klbkch, but it was more subtle. The Drake shrugged, unperturbed.
“Well, he’s right. We do have Skills. They’re part of our classes, although in my case I’ve got [Dangersense]. But I’m also a former soldier. And Klb? He’s theSlayer. We can tell you’re not hot stuff, Human.”
Slayer? Erin glanced at Klbkch, and the Antinium’s mandibles lowered and came together as he stared at Relc. The Drake lifted a claw, wincing apologetically. What did that mean? He hurried on; if anyone reacted, it was Pisces, who turned dead white as he stared up at Klbkch.
“My scales aren’t itching, so your Human friend here isn’t that good at magic. They always itch when I’m in danger. That’s not a Skill, either. But your friend can’t even trigger my [Dangersense]. Not even a little ring.”
Erin held up her hands, hesitating between Pisces and Klbkch.Slayer. Did that mean he slew…?
“He’s notmy friend.”
Relc shrugged.
“But he’s Human.”
The Drake said that like it meant everything.
“That’s—”
Erin struggled for a response. Meanwhile, Pisces’ sneer deepened, and he curled his lip, oblivious to the danger.
“Spoken like a truly ignorant fool. What would you know of magical mastery? My powers may not lie in mere confrontation, but I assure you, I have more power in my fingernails than you have in your entire brutish body.”
Relc stepped forwards, fist raised.
“Okay,that’s it. Close your eyes, Miss—”
For one moment, Erin wasn’t sure if she wanted to get between Relc and Pisces or duck out of the way. Klbkch made the decision for her. He grabbed Relc, and pulled him back. Not easily; but there was more strength in those wiry ant arms than Erin would have guessed.
“Relax. I would prefer not to damage this establishment. Nor would the owner or even you, I suspect.”
Relc hesitated. He looked at Erin, who decided to add her support of denial.
“Yeah, let’s calm down before someone gets hurt. Like me.”
Erin grabbed the jug of blue juice and began filling cups. Relc accepted a glass, drained it, and then sipped at the refill.
Erin went to fill Pisces’ glass, but he shielded it with one hand.
“No—no need, good Mistress Solstice. I am quite satisfied at the moment.”
Relc was still glaring daggers at Pisces.
“Peh. You should drink. It’ll be the last tasty thing you eat for a long time. Actually, what am I saying? This stuff’s way too good for you. Just remember what you’re missing when we lock you away.”
“If you can.”
Erin eyed Pisces. He was still sneering, and she wasn’t sure why. If she was any guess, Relc was two seconds away from turning his face into raw beef.
Relc scowled. He closed his hand, and Erin watched his entire armripple. She’d seen ripped guys before, of course, which wasn’t that impressive, but this—
“Last I checked, you were within arm’s reach. That means your fancy spells aren’t going to do a thing before I hit you hard enough to make your brains pop out. Trust me. I’ve done it before.”
Again, Pisces didn’t seem affected by Relc’s threat. At least visibly.
“I am a powerful [Mage] far beyond your capabilities. Even if your paltry Skills cannot detect my—capabilities—you would do well to be wary of my hidden…capabilities.”
He seemed to have forgotten synonyms for ‘capability’, like potential, talent, ability, and so on. Erin had the unfortunate desire to laugh. But Klbkch didn’t twitch.
The Antinium moved his head slightly. His expression didn’t change, but then, there wasn’t much to change. He lowered one of his four hands to his side, and Erin saw the hand rest casually on the pommel of his dagger. More sweat beaded on Erin’s lower back.
“Such as?”
Pisces drew himself up in his chair slightly.
“I have studied countless schools of magic. You see before you a practitioner of the elements, a weaver of illusions, a refined chanter, a master of alchemy, pyromancy, aeromancy, geomancy—”
“And necromancy.”
Erin helpfully chimed in. Pisces choked on his next words. He glared at her. She shrugged.
“What? You told me yesterday. Oh, and were you the one who stole the skeleton upstairs? I just realized that was probably you.”
Pisces lost his sneer and now looked uneasy. Relc, on the other hand, grinned again.
“Well, well. Theft of a corpse and reanimation, no doubt. That’s another big mark on the list of charges. But necromancy, well, that also means we don’t have to bring you back alive anymore.”
Erin opened her mouth, and Relc waved a hand. He looked exasperated as he glanced her way.
“Yes, yes. But we’ll just hit you and drag you back so Miss Erin doesn’t see anything nasty. But you’re in serious trouble now, Mister [Necromancer].”
“Oh, really?”
Pisces sat back in his chair. He was still pale, but he looked far more confident than he had any right to be.
“Regardless if you know my identity or not, I still believe you will find capturing me no easy task.”
Relc blinked. He scratched the spines on his head and then shook his head gently.
“Humans. You’re so arrogant and crazy. It’s almost funny. If you’re so full of powerful magic, dodge this.”
He swung his spear forward, the butt of the spear first. Erin shouted and tried to grab the spear, too slowly. But where the spear should have cracked Pisces over the head, Relc’s swing met nothing but air. Pisces was suddenly gone.
“What the—”
Relc blinked. Erin gaped. Klbkch instantly swung his swords in an arc, slashing the air around the chair. But he touched nothing.
“Gone.”
Relc swiped the air where Pisces had been with his spear and growled deep in his throat. Erin stared.
“He’s not invisible? He did that once.”
Relc shook his head angrily.
“No. I’d be able to sense if he were within a few feet of me. This was an illusion spell. A damn clever one, too. He pretended he was here and walked off while we were busy chatting. Most idiot spellcasters aren’t that stealthy or…when did he creep off? Klb, it was when you let go of him! I didn’t even see the chair move—damn, the chair’s an illusion too! Normally I can hear idiots skulking around even on the battlefield! This bastard tricked me! Me!”
He kicked a foot of the chair, and Eringasped as the chair vanished and reappeared, further back. Klbkch looked to the door.
“I am unsure of when he left. He may have escaped only a few minutes ago. We may still catch him if we hurry.”
“Right, right.”
Relc cursed and swung his spear angrily. It made a terrificwhooshing sound as it cut the air. Erin held her breath, afraid he’d let go and accidently cut her.
Klbkch turned and bowed his head to her.
“Thank you for informing us of his class, Mistress Erin. Although he posed no threat to either Relc or I, he is far more dangerous than we had believed. I did not notice the illusion spell. I have grown inattentive, lax. Relc as well, but this is a critical failing on my part.”
The Drake glared as Erin hesitated, looking at where Pisces had been sitting.
“Really? I thought—he didn’t seem dangerous. I mean, I hit him with a pot, and that knocked him out.”
“Oh, he’s probably as dangerous as a frog in a fight. That’s not the problem.”
Relc shook his head.
“We thought he was just an illusionist. That’s annoying, but really all he can do is scare folks into giving him things. But a necromancer’s worse. Far worse. We could let him go if he was just a normal [Mage], but we’vegot to find him now, and he knows it.”
“Why?”
Relc muttered to himself. He was still looking around, and his tongue was flicking out of his mouth, as if tasting the air. It was the first time he’d really reminded Erin of a lizard from her world.
“A rogue [Necromancer] on the loose does nasty things. Even a low-level one can bring down villages if you give him enough dead bodies, and they levelfast when that happens. Damn, I’m not going to be the one who let the next Az’kerash get away, Klb. We’re gonna have to hunt this guy down. If we can’t catch him today, I’ll have the Captain send out multiple patrols once we get back to the city. Erin, we have to go, but I think you’re safe if that guy didn’t do anything last time.”
Erin nodded. Then she hesitated.
“So. Does…that mean you’ll be back soon?”
Relc nodded.
“Less than an hour, but we won’t be able to stay. Sorry. I’ll try to get the patrol out faster, but you know how it is. We’ve got to shift around guardsmen on patrol, set trackers, get armed up, etc.”
“Oh. Okay. But, uh, does that mean—how long does it take to get back?”
“We should be able to cover the distance in approximately ten minutes if we run.”
Relc nodded in agreement.
“So we’ve gotta go. Why? Are you worried he’ll attack you?”
“No, not that. It’s just—the city.”
“The city? What about it?”
“Um, where is it? Is it thatteensy little wall of stone in the distance?”
Relc and Klbkch stared at her silently and then exchanged a glance.
“…You mean, you don’t know? By the way, things look smaller in the distance, Miss Solstice.”
“I know that! I just don’t know what I’m seeing! Should I? It’s not like there’s a sign or anything around here. And I can’t see it at all times.”
Relc looked amused.
“Don’t be snippy. But it’s easy to spot. Look, you can even see it out the window here.”
He walked over to a window and pointed. Erin squinted. Now that he mentioned it, the viewpoint heredid let her pick out that same landmark. It was just that she needed to look hard to spot the edge rising over a hill.
“…Is it that grey stuff there?”
“Well, yeah. Isn’t it obvious?”
“No, it’s really not. It could be a rock. A square rock.”
“It’snot a rock. Why are you having a hard time believing me? Can’t you see the buildings?”
“No, Ican’t.”
“I do not believe she can, in point of fact.”
Relc and Erin turned to look at Klbkch. He studied her and then brought his face close to hers. Erin flinched as he did.
“Do not be alarmed. I mean you no harm.”
“Sorry—sorry. It’s just the pincers. And the eyes. It’s just—sorry.”
Relc laughed.
“Don’t mind Klbkch. He’s ugly even for an ant. But you really can’t see the city from here?”
Klbkch nodded. He seemed focused on Erin’s own eyes.
“I believe Humans have more limited eyesight than you or I.”
“What? That’s stupid.”
Relc huffed to himself. He pointed out the window at the black dot.
“Look, the city’s that way. It’s only a twenty-minute walk, and there aren’t many monsters along the way. Besides, once you get within a few miles, the area is regularly patrolled, so you won’t have any problems. And if those idiots at the gate stop you—which they won’t—just tell them you know me.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Or me. However, you should encounter no problems. Only those with past records of crime are unwelcome in Liscor.”
“And speaking of which…we’ve gotta go. It’s my day off, but we’ll report that annoying Human maggot-mage back at the barracks. If we move fast, we might get him before he runs too far.”
Relc was on his feet. He moved so quickly that Erin was left gaping. One second he was sitting down, the next he was at the door.
“Hey, Klbkch, coming?”
And then Klbkch was there too. If Erin hadn’t seen the black blur that swept past her and felt the rush of air, she would have sworn he’d teleported.
“Indeed. It is unfortunate we must leave so soon. Our apologies, Miss Solstice.”
“No—no problem.”
“Well then.”
Klbkch nodded to her. Relc waved and was out the door in a flash. Erin was left sitting with a table full of dirty plates and a state of mild shock.
She had just picked up the first plate when the door slammed back open. She jumped, but Relc waved at her.
“Oh, sorry we forgot to pay. We’re in a hurry so—put it on our tab!”
The door closed. Erin stared at it hopefully, but it didn’t open again.
“…What tab?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:26:56)
Reply to this comment with typos!
b a (2023-03-05T21:46:37)
mugs were filled up on but never use were they used to drink? to clean? Also, The goblins were acknowledged as Glblins by Relc and Klbckch Erin could have said I’l think of thenm as Goblins unntil I hear different to insure information was understood through out the series.
Kevin (2023-07-03T23:29:28)
A couple good moments that made me laugh out loud! ?. I’m happy she has customers now
solstice (2024-12-22T15:12:15)
In chapter 1.06, Erin never introduced herself to Relc and Klbch when they introduced themselves and yet Klbkch addresses her as “Miss Erin”. Inconsistency or Klbkch catches her name through [spoiler title=”minor spoiler for later chapters in this volume or future volumes”] listeners from the previous chapter when she introduced herself to Pisces [/spoiler] ?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.10
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-10/

Erin stood in front of the cupboard and sighed. Loudly.
“Men.”
Erin paused and thought about that word.
“Males. They eat and eat and eat. And then I have to clean up the dishes. Typical.”
True, she was an [Innkeeper]. Or at least, she kept an inn relatively clean. But that didn’t make her feel better.
“Pantry? Pantry is empty. Food? Food is gone. And money—”
She glanced at the pile of coins on the kitchen counter. Gold, silver, copper and…where had the gold come from?
Klbkch. He’d put two down for his meal and Relc’s, one each time he’d come. Was that normal pricing? She guessed that if he was giving it to her, it was.
Erin dunked a plate in a bucket of water, the lye soap in her other hand. She used the dustrag to wipe at the plate, but then realized she needed a second bucket to clean everything off.
She decided she’d soap-wash the dishes, then she had to get another bucket from the stream…but her reward was the lovely coins. And less food. Assuming she had more money coming in than she spent, this was ideal—but she needed to spend it. That seemed to be the critical missing link in the way this business was working so far.
“Money is shiny. But, uh, inedible. And it’s good to have money, but starvation is an issue.”
Erin stared at the empty pantry. She had a tiny scraping of butter left, a mostly empty jar of flour…starvation was a major issue.
“Aren’t there some more blue fruits around here? Here? No…here? Yep. Nice and wrinkled. Lovely.”
She could always get more blue fruits, of course. But there was a limit on how many those trees had left. And there was also a limit to how many Erin was willing to keep hauling back.
“And I’m out of ingredients.”
The flour was almost gone. The butter was all but gone. The salt—okay, there was some salt left and some sugar too. But they were running low in their jars, and with the lovely preservation-spell-thing gone, they’d probably turn rotten sometime soon.
“So I’m in trouble.”
“So it would appear.”
The second, droll voice was right in her ear. Erin was sure her heart stopped for a good few seconds. She turned around and looked at Pisces.
“If I had a knife in my hand, I’d stab you.”
He smirked at her. It seemed to be his default mode of face. He stood up from where he had been crouching, invisible or concealed, in the corner of the kitchen.
“Ah, but what good innkeeper would deprive herself of such a magnificent guest?”
Erin reached for a knife. Pisces lifted his hands instantly.
“Please, please, good Mistress, let’s not be hasty!”
He took a few rapid steps back. Erin glared at him, but only let her hand rest on the counter. Pisces looked dusty. And dirty. And sweaty.
“Where did you come from? I didn’t hear you come in through the door.”
The sneer was cut with genuine nervousness, but Pisces gestured upstairs smugly.
“I was, in fact, upstairs the entire time. Under a bed. It was the simplest solution given the intelligence of those two brutish guardsmen.”
Erin blinked. He had dust-bunnies all over his hair and robes, which, granted, didn’t actually make him that much dirtier. She glanced towards the common room and nodded.
“Good job, I guess. But they’re still going to find you. You’re a criminal, and you’ve got nowhere to hide.”
“Except here.”
He raised a hand before Erin could say anything.
“Please, hear me out. Rest assured, I bear you no ill will for reporting my actions to the guard. I fully appreciate the severity of my crimes, however—”
“You want something. What? To stay here? No. Nope. No way in hell.”
Pisces lifted his hands and put on what she supposed was his best smile. It made him no less desperate, but he spoke quickly and eloquently. A scholar? Erin supposed a [Mage] was probably scholarly.
“I assure you I would be a quite convivial guest. And I wouldn’t ask for much. In fact, you may be interested to know I am proficient in multiple schools of spellcasting. While necromancy is a—passion of mine, I have extensively studied the elementalist, illusory, and enchanting schools of magic. My level is over twenty in the general [Mage] class. Even amongst my fellow students, you would be hard-pressed to find a spellcaster as widely capable as I am. I can aid in a number of functions that would improve your inn. And I have money.”
Erin raised two eyebrows. One just wasn’t enough.
“And you’re telling me all this…why?”
He licked his lips.
“In point of fact, I was wondering if I might persuade you to shelter and provide me with my basic necessities while in this moment of dire need. I can provide you with adequate recompense, I assure you—”
Erin snorted rudely.
“Right, for how long? Days? Weeks? Months? And I get to feed you, make sure no one finds you, and clean up after you? Again: no. I’m barely getting enough food for myself as it is.”
“Would you turn away an innocent—”
Erin’s finger nearly jabbed him in the chest as he stepped back. The young woman raised her voice as Pisces retreated out of the kitchen.
“Innocent? You? You’re nothing more than a thug with a magic wand. Remember how we met? You tried to scare me into giving you food. And now you want protection because you’re getting your just desserts? No. No, when I see Relc again, you’d better be long gone from here. And if you don’t leave now, I’ll kick you out myself.”
Erin finished her tirade and folded her arms under her breasts. But while Pisces had turned white as a sheet, he didn’t look ashamed or afraid so much as…
Angry.
He whispered a spell. Erin felt the air grow colder around her and suddenly saw shadows twisting around Pisces’ hands. The darkness was gathering around him like a cloak. It was the same spell as before, or close enough.
Pisces took a step towards her.
“I am a man in desperate straits. You would do well not to underestimate what I am capable of.”
Erin’s heart was racing. She took two steps back, and he followed.
“Antagonizing one of my power is unwise. If you have any sense, you will accede to my request. Or know the consequences.”
Her mouth was dry, but she knew it was just an illusion. So Erin forced herself to reply with more bravado than she felt.
“So, what? If I don’t decide to help you, will you hurt me? Bash my brains in? Or will you just rip my clothes off and try to rape me?”
He looked shocked.
“Of course I wouldn’t dothat. I’m no barbarian—”
“Good.”
Erin’s hand moved in a flash. Pisces looked down and gulped. A knife was poking into his stomach.
Her heart was racing. She could taste bile in her mouth. But her hand was very, very still. She wasn’t sure of much in her life right now. Magic and monsters made her head spin. Yet some things were the same. And she had no intention of being the victim here, especially where no one could hear her scream.
Her knife had a gratifying effect on her mage guest. He licked his lips and raised his hands, turning a shade paler than normal.
“Now, now. Let’s not be hasty, good Mistress. I was merely saying—”
“Move and I will stab you.”
It was no threat. It was a promise. And, to his credit, Pisces was intelligent enough to take it seriously.
“—Allow me to apologize. But if I might say a few words—”
“No. Out.”
Erin advanced. Pisces had to step backwards or be knifed in slow motion. She forced him back into the common room and towards the door.
“Please, please reconsider.”
“No.”
His face was so desperate Erin paused a second.
“Why should I? Give me one good reason, Pisces.”
Pisces stopped at the door. Erin jabbed at him with the knife, but he refused to move back any further. He raised his hands higher and spoke with increasing speed and panic.
“If I am caught, they will take me to the city. And there I will be judged and killed. This is a certainty, Mistress Erin.”
Erin eyed him uncertainly. Pisces was licking his lips, and he looked genuinely afraid. But she couldn’t quite trust him after his threats. Posturing aside—there was the way he was looking at her, too. He didn’t really trust her, did he? Oh, no. And she didn’t trust him. But the part about being executed? Erin frowned hard.
“Relc never said—”
“He didn’t want to tell you the truth! But he and I both know what happens to [Necromancers]. We—any mage possessing even a single level in the class—are all killed on sight in this part of the world! There’s no mercy for my kind here. The legacy of the Necromancer of Terandria, Az’kerash, lingers. Especiallyhere, where his armies once sieged Liscor.”
“Well—well too bad.”
Erin’s mouth was on autopilot. Pisces tried to step around her back into the kitchen, but she blocked him, forcing him to the door.
“Even if you’re in danger,I’m in danger if I hide you. I’m not doing that. Run away. Just run away now.”
“They will have patrols out around the city. They will scour the grasslands for me. Please, if you were to hide me, I would be sure to survive.”
“No.Go.”
Erin pointed towards the door with one hand. He wavered, but made one last entreaty.
“Please, I beg of you. Just one night. Just give me sanctuary, and I swear I will be gone upon the morrow. It is my death without your aid. Would you kill me? I ask you as a fellow Human.Please.”
“I—”
The knife in her hands wavered. Pisces seized the moment. He stepped forwards, hands outstretched beseechingly.
“Please, spare my life. If you have any pity in your soul—”
Thudthudthudthudthud.
Pounding footsteps. Both Humans turned and looked at the door. Pisces turned white, and Erin heard a roaring,familiar voice.
“Gotcha!”
It was quick. One second, Erin was pointing her finger at the door and glaring at Pisces. The next,something kicked the door open, blew past her, and Pisces was gone. Two figures crashed into a table and chairs. Erin’s mouth dropped open.
“There you are!”
The larger shape uttered a triumphant laugh as he swung Pisces around and slammed him into the floorboards. It was Relc. He came through the door and took Pisces down in a tackling charge faster thananyone Erin had ever seen. Pisces didn’t even make a sound until he hit the ground—and then it was the sound of someone losing all the air in his body and perhaps having his lungs and ribs compressed.
“Miss Solstice.”
Klbkch appeared at her side. Erin jumped, but the ant man placed a steadying…hand on her shoulder.
“Please forgive my rudeness. Are you well? We doubled back and lingered, knowing the criminal may have only pretended to flee the area. Are you hurt or in need of assistance?”
“What?”
Erin stared at him.
“Are you—what’s—I’m good. Good.”
“That is well. Then, please stand clear. We will be going about our business, and I would not wish you hurt.”
That said, Klbkch gently guided Erin to one side. To her astonishment, the fight between Relc and Pisces wasn’t over. The two were rolling around, knocking over tables and chairs as the Drake attempted to smash the Human into anything he could while the Human tried to avoid that fate.
Relc roared from the ground.
“Klb! Get over here and help! This guy’s slipperier than he looks!”
Klb nodded to Erin and dashed into the fight. She watched in stupefaction as the two tried to hold Pisces down. Oddly, it wasn’t that easy. Despite the size advantage and muscle advantage, Pisces was still managing to fend off both. Erin wondered how, until she saw he had something in his hands.
The wand. It was jetting electricity, as if it were an electric wire. Electricity, flames, which Relc jerked back from. He swung a fist, and Pisces vanished again. This time, he slammed so hard into a table Erin winced as he tried to get up.
Pisces scrambled to his feet and leapt for the door, but Klbkch caught him by the foot and attempted to tie his hands together with a piece of string, which turned out to be his boot’s shoelaces. Pisces shouted…something, and the leather burst into flames. Relc leapt on him and then blinked.
“[Barrier of Air]!”
Pisces waved his wand, and the Drakesmashed into a shimmering whirlwind of air, bounced off, and landed on the ground. He ducked under the shimmering…spell? Erin was transfixed, but then Klbkch took Pisces down with a leg-sweep. He didn’t reach for his swords—he dodged a shard of stone that pierced the air next to his head, pinned Pisces’ hand—and then made a clicking sound of exasperation as Relc knocked both him and Pisces over in a low charge. 
Pisces got back up, slashed the air with his wand, and both Klbkch and Relc ducked a glowing blade, throwing themselves flat as Pisces backpedaled.
It was a fast and dirty fight that had one or all three of the fighters rolling on the ground at all times. But Erin had only half an eye for that. The other eye was watching all of the furniture in her inn get smashed as they fought.
“Stop moving! Hey!”
“Desist your actions or—”
Pisces’ fingers sparked. A small explosion of lightning blasted Klbkch into a wall as Relc ducked. Erin ducked too. From behind her table, she could see Klbkch twitching and making a distressedbuzzing sound. Then the Antinium drew his swords. Relc roared.
“Yousquirming—”
The dullthud of something hitting something echoed throughout the inn. But it was punctuated by another crackle of electricity and Relc shouting in pain.
Erin turned away from the brawl and ran into the kitchen. She emerged with the pot just in time to see Relc blasted off his feet, this time by what looked like an explosion of air.
Pisces backed away from the Drake, panting heavily. His face was bruised and he was bleeding from the nose and mouth, but his fingers still crackled with energy. He turned to run, but stopped.
Klbkch was on his feet. The ant man was standing in front of the door, swords drawn. He held two, one in each hand, while his other two held small daggers. Erin saw Pisces gulp. She agreed. Klbkch looked like a wall of blades. The two [Guardsmen] had gone after Pisces unarmed while he had his wand. Now that Klbkch had drawn his blades, Erin felt like the odds were completely reversed.
“I—I seek no quarrel with you. I am a graduate of Wistram Academy and a practicing mage. You detain me at your peril.”
Pisces pointed a trembling finger at Klbkch. It sparked with green energy that crackled around his fingertip, but it was suddenly a lot less impressive compared to Klbkch’s armory.
“Regardless of your affiliation to any academy, you are still under arrest. Please surrender now or I will be forced to employ lethal force.”
Pisces hesitated.
“My magic—”
“Is useless. Surrender.”
“Surrender?”
Erin jumped. She saw Relc getting to his feet. The Drake’s eyes were narrowed, and in his hands was a spear. It wasn’t long, but it did look extremely sharp. And the way he held it, Erin instinctively knew he was ready to use it to kill.
Pisces took one look at the spear and immediately raised his hands.
“I—I give up.”
Relc spat. His leather chest armor was singed in multiple places, but the scales underneath only looked soot-blackened, not damaged. However—Erin could tell how furious he was. The Drake’s claws tightened on the spear.
“Not likely. I’m gutting you like a fish right here.”
Erin stared at Relc in horror. But there was no joking in his eyes. He was practically quivering with rage, but the arms that held his spear were completely still and tensed.
“Gutting? Hey, that’s—”
“Don’t be hasty!”
Pisces backed away from Relc, talking fast.
“I assure you, my life is worth far more than you would ever get for me dead. This can all be solved amicably. I will fully cooperate—”
“Cooperate?”
Relc stepped forwards, and Pisces pressed his two fingers together. A strong breeze flew through the inn, and a flickering barrier of wind appeared in front of Relc.
“I will cease all magic and go with you quietly if you assure my life. I meant no harm to you or your companion. But we are at an impasse until you do.”
Relc’s eyes narrowed.
“By that? You think a piddly little [Barrier of Air] spell is going to stop me?”
The big Drake’s body tensed. He crouched slightly and then dashed into the wind wall. Relc’s massive body smashed into the semi-transparent barrier of wind. He sunk into the barrier, and then the winds pushed back.
Even from this distance, Erin felt the tremendous force in the spell and saw chairs and tables being blown away. For a moment, she thought Relc would go flying. But his claws dug into the ground, and the wind howled—
The whirling winds blew apart with a smallclap of air that sent the nearest chairs flying. Pisces staggered back, face grey with shock. Erin stared.
Relc, on the other hand, just twirled his spear in his hand. He spat contemptuously on the floor.
“That’s what I think of your spells. I’m a former soldier of the 4th Wing of the Liscorian Army. I’ve killed more [Mages] than you have levels. Now, are you going to die quiet or will I have to pay for painting the walls red with your blood?”
Pisces stepped back, tripped over a fallen chair, and fell on his back. He raised his hands and cried out in a shrill voice.
“I can be ransomed. Quite highly! My school will pay ten—thirty gold coins in whichever denomination you like for my return.”
Relc raised the spear.
“Still don’t care. I don’t need money if I can get rid of a stinking fleshbag like you.”
Erin raised her voice in horror.
“What?No! No killing! Do you hear me?”
But no one was listening. Klbkch was closing in, swords and daggers at the ready. Relc raised his spear higher.
“Last words, [Mage]?”
“I—I—”
She couldn’t believe what was happening. The friendly Relc was lowering his spear, a dozen paces away from the backpedaling Pisces. But he could close that gap in less than a second. His eyes—
He was going to kill Pisces. And Klbkch wasn’t going to stop him. Erin’s head swung to the Antinium, and Klbkch stood by the door, impassive. She couldn’t read his face, and in that second, he looked like a true insect. Pisces was white with fear. Erin was in denial until she saw the Drake’s eyes. Even then…she saw Pisces hit a table. He looked at Relc and grew calm for a second.
That bitter, blank look returned to his face. He bared his teeth and lifted the wand like a dagger. It glowed, but with no real hope. Just like his eyes. But he drew himself up, a pale, thin young man, and shouted, eyes bulging, his voice hoarse and—Erin’s head swung to him as he raised his voice.
“I have only ever done what I loved. Slay me as well, you thoughtless fools. Just like all of my kind. One day—one of us will follow Az’kerash.”
Erin’s skin crawled. Klbkch looked up sharply, but Relc just grinned with all his teeth. His tongue flickered around them, like blood.
“Nice last words. But remember—your Necromancer died here. Miles from this very spot. The Tidebreaker was his end.”
Pisces’ look of defiance flickered. He lifted his wand.
“I know.”
The Drake lowered his spear and ducked, sweeping low as Pisces took one step forwards, a word, a name on his lips.
“Gewil—”
“Hey!”
Erinslammed the pot on the table top as hard as she could. Relc, Klbkch, and Pisces paused as one to stare at her. Relc froze in his killing charge as Erin pointed one shaking finger at them.
“No fighting. Not here. And no killing!”
Relc blinked. He lowered his spear a fraction. Erin pointed to it.
“Stop that! Put the weapons away and get out.”
“But he’s—”
“I don’t care! You don’t kill people just because they practice stupid magic! And you don’t kill people just because you don’t like them! And you don’t kill people because killing people is wrong!”
“What?”
Relc pointed down at Pisces angrily. He didn’t lower his spear, but Pisces had stopped mid-cast of whatever spell he had in mind.
“He’s acriminal.”
“No, he’s an idiot. But he didn’t do anything wrong enough to die for. All he did was try to scare me.”
“He hit me with lightning!”
The Drake gestured at the burns on his chest. Erin pointed to Pisces’ bleeding nose and bruised cheek.
“You punched his brains out! That’s not enough to kill him over!”
The Drake lowered his spear. He turned to Klbkch in disbelief, then back to Erin.
“I can’t believe this. Are you defending him? Because he’s Human? Or do you not want the blood in here? In that case, I’ll take him out back and—”
“No!”
Erin shouted at Relc. She waved the pot around dangerously.
“Are you stupid? I don’t want anyone killing anyone! You can’t do it! I forbid it! It’s wrong! It’s illegal.”
“In point of fact, my comrade’s actions are not—”
Erin whirled and pointed at Klbkch. The Antinium actually backed up a step as she glared between the two [Guards].
“I don’t care! No killing, do you hear me?”
Relchissed angrily.
“Then I’ll arrest him, and he’ll be executed tomorrow. Happy?”
Pisces turned pale again. Erin’s mouth replied before her brain caught up.
“I withdraw my testimony.”
“Youwhat?”
Erin lifted her hands.
“I withdraw it. All of it. I was never attacked yesterday. This mage-guy never visited the inn, and I never saw him until today. So there’s no reason for you to arrest him.”
“You can’t do that!”
Relc turned and looked at Klbkch.
“Can she?”
The ant man nodded reluctantly.
“She is correct. Without her testimony, we cannot submit a report regarding his attempted thefts.”
Relc faltered. He looked uncertainly at Pisces and then remembered.
“But he’s still a [Necromancer]! That’s a crime no matter what he does! And he attacked us!”
Erin crossed her arms.
“Prove it.”
“What?”
“Prove. It. Can you? Is there a way to check his, uh, class?”
Relc gritted his teeth.
“…No. Not without an artifact. Klb, you got an [Appraisal] scroll?”
“No.”
“Then go. Now.”
Relc gaped at Erin. It was surprisingly frightening. Erin could look right down his throat. He had a lot of teeth.
“Are you serious? One word to our Watch Captain and she’ll send a patrol back to capture this idiot! And if we don’t arrest him, you have a [Necromancer] running around! You want us to let him goknowing his class?”
“Absolutely.”
Erin glared at him. Relc lowered his spear, grabbed at the spines on his head, andhissed. 
“I could still arrest him for attacking me. Yeah. I’ll just do that. Who cares about testimony or whatever?”
He took a threatening step towards Pisces, and Erin’s mouth once again beat anything else.
“You do that—and I’ll tell all the people who vouched for you that Senior Guardsman Relc arrested someone after a fighthe started. You have no proof, no testimony, and I’m pretty sure if you arrest him, that’s illegal. There are laws, and you have to follow them. If this isn’t the first time you’ve done something like this, you could get a permanent citation on your record.”
Erin was just making things up now. She had no idea what kind of legal system Relc had to work under, but she was taking a guess based on their limited conversations. And it worked. Relc hesitated.
“No, I can’t.”
“Yes, you can. You have no cause whatsoever to arrest Pisces.”
The Drake’s arms were bunched up. He turned, furiously, and called in backup.
“Klb—help me out here!”
Erin’s heart sank as Klbkch sheathed his daggers. But only so he could pull out something from his belt. A handbook. How had he fit it on his belt?
Wherever he’d gotten it from, the Antinium read carefully.
“I believe Senior Guardsman Relc does have just cause, Miss Erin Solstice. It is true that his personal sworn testimony would be called into question if you were to speak against him. [Detect Truth] spells would settle that matter, but Relc’s history of inappropriate conduct on-and-off-duty does not help his case.”
“Hey.”
The Antinium raised one finger.
“However. As Senior Guardsman Klbkch, I will vouch for my partner to take this Human into custody for unlawful practices which include extortion, theft, and intimidation, which we have every right to suspect, with or without your testimony.”
He closed the book, and Relc waited, clearly unsure if that meant he had won. Erin’s heart sank. She looked at Klbkch and then at Pisces. And then around her inn. How could she save him? For once, she didn’t want the [Guardsmen] to be…
Here?
Here? Erin’s eyes lit up, and she stopped Klbkch, who was stepping towards Pisces to effect the arrest, with a shaking finger. Literally—she shook it in his face as the surprised Antinium halted.
“Oh no. Absolutely not. You’re all wrong, Klbkch.”
“I do not believe I am.”
Erin’s shaking intensified, from nerves as much as faux-fury.
“Oh yeah?Oh yeah? Well, this is outside your jurisdiction! You said it yourself—you don’t patrol my inn! Therefore, it is my inn, and I deny your city’s authority here!”
Klbkch’s mandibles opened and stayed there. Relc swung his head to Pisces and Erin.
“Wait—what did she just say? Jurisdic—we don’t do that, do we, Klb? Buddy?”
Erin froze, but Klbkch clacked his mandibles after a second. He stared at Erin for a long moment, then at Pisces, then slowly sheathed his swords. He met the [Innkeeper]’s desperate gaze—then nodded.
“…I believe I am incorrect. Relc, the Watch has no authority here. This is an independent inn, and the [Innkeeper] is allowed to deny our authority here.”
“What? Then let’s arresther too!”
Relc protested, and Erin’s heart sank, but Klbkch stared at Erin for a long moment and then backed up.
“That would be inadvisable, Relc. We are off-duty, and Miss Solstice has stated her case. Executing a [Mage] of Wistram might also affect the Academy’s relationship with our city. Which the Council and Watch Captain would not be happy about.”
Relc spluttered. He looked from Pisces to Klbkch to Erin, and his scales grew darker. Was he…blushing with fury? Relc lowered his spear, made an inarticulate noise of rage, then pointed at Pisces.
“You take one step in the city and I’ll—I’ll—you take one step in there and I’ll do something about it. If I so much as see you on my patrol—”
Pisces was panting, looking at Erin with disbelief. He lowered his wand, slowly, and spoke.
“I assure you, you will neversee—”
Relc’s eye twitched.
“Shut up.”
Pisces wisely shut up. The Drake looked at Erin, then whirled around. He stomped towards the door.
“Humans!”
Relc kicked the door as he left. Erin winced as she heard the woodcrack. Then he was gone.
Klbkch walked past Erin and nodded to her politely.
“Do not mind him. You are within your rights to enforce law within this establishment as you choose. I apologize for the mess on both our behalves.”
He left. Erin stood around the room, looking at the broken chairs, overturned tables, and general wooden carnage. Behind her, Pisces got to his feet. He was still shaking and sweatily pale.
“I don’t know how I can thank you, good M—Miss Erin. Please, accept my humblest—”
Bonk.
Erin tapped him on the head with the pot. Hard.
“Out.”
“What?”
Pisces stared at her in disbelief. Erin raised the pot higher.
“Out.”
He stumbled out. Erin kept staring at the mess in the room. It had to be said. Definitely.
“Males.”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:27:06)
Reply to this comment with typos!
Grault (2023-03-14T18:18:39)
I wonder whether she gets the subclass [Governor] when she sleeps.
Thaecrasis (2023-04-11T16:28:03)
Wow, that was tense – Erin is probably not very wise in making an enemy of the guard though
greycat (2023-07-15T23:09:41)
> But his claws dug into the ground, and the wind howled—
Not precisely a typo, and you’ve been using “ground” to refer to the floor pretty consistently, but they *are* indoors, and in a previous chapter you said the inn had floorboards.  Claws digging into ground would be quite different from claws digging into floorboards.
EllieVia (2023-07-19T13:11:47)
Not exactly a typo either, but where did the lye soap come from ?
Takusaka (2023-09-30T10:13:21)
Man seeing all these new readers is refreshing
Seeker of the Light (2024-01-22T20:07:17)
She’s a pacifist?
Tez (2024-07-05T08:58:47)
I like the story so far. Cool concept. Erin is pretty insufferable though. Wondering if she is like this the whole time?
Vivid (2024-09-02T02:16:06)
She grows on you.
Mr anderson (2024-09-03T14:51:16)
Not wanting someone to get gutted in front of you doesn’t make you a pacifist
WanderingBy (2024-09-04T15:49:26)
Towards the end of the fight you mention Klbkch “closing in, swords and daggers at the ready.” but then a few paragraphs later is “Klbkch stood by the door, impassive”
Stacy (2024-09-15T19:32:15)
I just like this story more and more! Hope the good she did will bounce back…
Enigma (2024-11-27T01:42:03)
I started this series yesterday, and it’s so entertaining ! I was afraid because I don’t read that much(just few Light novel and visual novel) but so far I love the settings and the characters !

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.11
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-11/

Erin woke up. Generally, this was an ordeal. Today, however, it was fairly easy. Because the real ordeal would come later.
Such as right after breakfast. Erin stared glumly at the three shriveled blue fruits on her plate. She bit the first experimentally and chewed. And chewed. And chewed.
“Rubbery.”
It was incredibly difficult to chew the fruits. The skins on these ones were so tough to bite into, it did remind Erin of eating rubber. Not that she’d ever done that since she was a baby.
Plus, they’d lost their delicious juices and tasted—well,flat. There was no sweetness left in them, and they were quite, quite unappetizing when you put all these qualities together. But Erin ate them, mainly because she had nothing left to eat.
“I’m in trouble. Yup, yup. It’s amazing these things lose so much taste after only a few days.”
It wasn’t that she was out of blue fruits. There were plenty—well, some—still ready to be harvested from the orchard. But they, like all food, were in limited supply. Besides, the issue wasn’t that. It was her guests.
“Who’d want to eat blue fruits all day? Raise your hand if that sounds like fun.”
Erin didn’t raise her hand. Granted, they were tasty and made a good fruit drink, but when you got down to it, they were still just fruits.
“And I want food.Real food. Not fruit. I want bread! I want pasta! I want pizza and soda and salad and ice cream—actually, forget the ice cream. I need meat. Or fish that doesn’t bite back! I want sushi, cheeseburgers and fries, toast, waffles…cereal…”
Erin pressed her hands to her rumbling stomach and tried not to cry.
“Even instant ramen would be nice. Is that too much to ask?”
It was. She knew that. But just thinking about the food made her tear up a bit. She could handle Goblins. She could deal with rude [Necromancers] and fight off evil rock crabs. She could even handle giant fish that tried to nibble on her when she took a bath. But she wantedfood.
“Plus, I need to feed my guests.”
Erin nodded. The math was simple. No food equaled no guests equaled no money equaled starvation. But the little flaw in the equation was that in order to get the food, she’d need to spend the money. And she had no way of doing that.
“Unless I go to the city.”
Now, that was a thought. She wasn’t sure if that was a good thought, but it was the only option she had available. The city. Erin went to the window. Relc had shown her where it was…
“There.”
Erin stared at the small buildings in the distance. It looked far. But then, everything looked far around here. And the city would have things. Like food. And clothing. And toothbrushes. And plates and things for her guests? It looked alot farther than twenty minutes away, though. Erin imagined the journey wasn’t without risks, but if Relc and Klbkch did it…she weighed her options.
“It’s far. But I have to go. Maybe? Yes…no. No? Yes. I need food. And I need to feed my guests. It’s my duty as an innkeeper.”
She paused and thought about that last statement. Erin collapsed into a chair and cradled her head in her hands.
“Am I an innkeeper? Is that what this world is doing to me?”
Maybe. It was probably the [Innkeeper] class. However, it was the only class she had. Erin just hoped she didn’t change to meet the class.
“I’ll grow a huge beer belly and start hauling around kegs of ale. That’s what innkeepers do, right?”
She didn’t actually know. It wasn’t as if she’d ever paid that much attention to medieval history, at least the parts that were actually history.
“They never mentioned innkeepers in the legend of King Arthur. Or did they?”
There was no Google to help her, so Erin abandoned that train of thought. Really, she was distracting herself. She knew what she had to do today.
“To go to the city or not, that is the question. Actually, there’s no question. I need to go to the city. I need to go…shopping.”
She hated shopping in general. This? This would be crucial shopping, because unless she got enough flour, eggs, and so on to sell to her guests—she wouldn’t be able to make more money. Which she needed to buy more things. Essentially, she had a job, and while she could live off blue fruits for a time without money—she couldn’t do that forever. Her teeth certainly couldn’t.
Still. Erin really, really didn’t want to go. She liked people, she really did. But she had a negative reaction to leaving her safe inn and travelling to a far-off city probably full of giant lizards and insects that walked on two feet.
Glumly, she stared at the three blue fruit cores on her plate. She walked outside and threw them as far as she could. The juices left her hands feeling unpleasantly sticky, but there wasn’t much she could do about it.
“Guess I’ve gotta go to the stream. Who knew washing your hands was so much work?”
Erin grumbled as she wiped her hand on her jeans. Then she paused. And looked down.
Her jeans were blue. The blue fruit juice was blue. But against all odds, the blue stain still showed up quite visibly on her clothing. Or rather, the blue fruitstains. And they weren’t just on her pants.
Erin’s shirt was a nice, commercial t-shirt with a lovely company logo on the front and back. Really, she wasn’t that attached to it, but it was perfect to wear when she was just staying at home. It wasn’ther choice of clothing.
…Which was good, because Erin would have cried if she’d inflicted the same damage on a t-shirt she really liked. She gazed down at the blue stains covering her shirt. She poked at the rips and cuts on the sleeves and the burn marks on one side. She lifted the shirt, sniffed once, and gagged.
For the first time, Erin felt at her hair. She raised a hand and smelled her breath. She thought about the last time she’d brushed her teeth. Then she tried to shut down her mind.
“Well, that settles that. I’m off to the city.”
——
Erin walked through the grass. She wished there was a nice road to follow, but for some reason, no one bothered to pave a road through the empty wilderness. Come to that, she wondered again why anyone would build an inn in the middle of nowhere.
Maybe there used to be more people in the area. Or maybe there was just an idiot who thought he was breaking into an untapped market. Either way, Erin was grateful for the inn.
“But why does it have to be so far away from anything?”
Erin walked down the slope. At least there was that. The inn was located on an incline. Not a steep hill, but a really long slope that gradually went down the more she walked. It was nice, until Erin looked back and realized she’d be climbing up all that way again soon.
“Wow. That’s a big hill.”
She stared for a while and kept walking. Relc and Klbkch had called the journey to the city a walk of about twenty minutes.
“They lied to me.”
Or maybe they just walked really fast. Erin could actually see the city Klbkch had called Liscor in the distance. It was still small, but given how close it seemed now compared to before and multiplying her velocity by her legs and given energy divided by her willingness to keep walking…
“Thirty minutes. No; probably an hour. Yeah, that sounds about right.”
Erin sighed. But exercise was good for her, right? It built character. Or something.
“So, what do I need?”
She took a quick inventory check. Her coins were securely packed into the bottom of one pocket. They were heavy. She had her clothes on, which was important, and she looked like…well, like a homeless person. But she had money. So what should she buy with it?
“Um. Clothing. Right. And soap. And a toothbrush, if they have toothbrushes. And toothpaste…which they probably don’t have. But something. And I need food obviously, more soap, towels, laundry deter—more soap, and a comb.”
Erin walked a few more feet.
“And a sword. I need a sword. And a shield? And armor? And, uh, anti-Goblin spray? Oh, and books! Tons of books. Maps, history books…can I read any of that? Well, Relc and Klbkch speak English. So that’s weird too. And I need bandages, a sewing needle, someone to teach me how to sew…”
Erin felt at her pocket. The coins jingled. She wished there were more to jingle.
“And I need to rob a bank.”
Okay. Erin retraced her thoughts.
“What’s essential?”
She counted off on her fingers.
“Clothing. Food. Toothbrush. Toothpaste. And a lamp.”
She snapped her fingers.
“Right. A lamp! And a sword.”
She felt at her pocket again and heard less of ajingle, more a few bits of metal rubbing together.
“…Just the lamp.”
——
“Flat grass, flat grass, all I see is flat grass.”
Erin sang as she walked. She wasn’t sure if there was a tune, but at least the singing kept her company.
“Horses eat grass, but I’ll pass, so I’ll go to the city fast. Or I’ll die of starvation! And once I’m there, I’ll eat ten pears and—hey, is that a Goblin?”
Erin turned her head suddenly, and the small head ducked down. She squinted. Yes, that was definitely a Goblin. It was hiding up on a small hill to her left, but she knew it was still there. Watching her.
Well. She was being followed. Erin wasn’t sure what to make of that. She looked around, and two more heads disappeared as their owners dove for cover. They didn’t look like they were trying to ambush her, just follow her.
“Hm.”
Erin bent down and searched the grass. Eventually, she found what she was looking for. She waited until one of the Goblins decided she’d forgotten about them and poked his head up again. Then she turned and shouted.
“Shoo!”
Erin hurled the rock. It missed the Goblin’s head. And the hill. But the green figure took the hint and disappeared in an instant. Erin sighed to herself.
“Great. They’re like cockroaches. Evil, giant, green cockroaches. With teeth. And sharp knives. And red eyes.”
She wondered what she should do. Then she thought about what she could actually do.
Erin kept walking.
The city kept getting larger the further she walked. She felt at some point it should stop getting bigger, but soon the buildings loomed in her vision. They were no skyscrapers, but they were taller than she felt medieval buildings should be. But the city was still far away. So she walked.
And she was being watched. Multiple pairs of eyes stared at the young woman as she walked through the grass. They watched her for signs of weakness, for things that could be exploited. She was watched. Occasionally, she turned around and threw a stone.
——
When Erin got to the city gates, she stared up for a while.
“That’s a big wall.”
It was a big understatement. The wall was high. And that was high even by wall standards. It was nearly forty feet tall, which Erin had no way of knowing was perfectly normal for a curtain wall. She had no way of knowing it was forty feet tall either. She just thought it was big.
But what was unusual about this particular wall, and what Erin did notice, was the way the gate was constructed. It was no iron grating of a portcullis with handy holes to shoot and poke at enemies, but two solid metal doors. Erin wondered why, as the gates looked solid and hard to budge. They were, and for a reason. But she didn’t find out that reason until much later.
Erin approached the gate. There wasn’t really anyone else going through at the moment, so she felt very alone and small as she walked up to them. She stopped when she saw the guard.
He was big. He was armored. He was also a Drake, and he had yellow scales rather than green ones. Pale yellow, so Erin was reminded of popcorn. He also had a curved sword, and so it was with trepidation that she approached.
“…Hi.”
The Drake flicked his eyes down towards Erin and then resumed looking off into the distance. He was holding a spear at his side and a metal buckler on his left arm. Since he wasn’t using either to bash her to death, Erin considered this to be a good first start.
“Um. Nice weather, isn’t it?”
Again, the guard glanced at her. Again, he didn’t respond.
“…Right. It’s just that I’m new here. And I’m Human. Nice to meet you. My name is Erin. I, uh, know another guy who works with you. Relc? And Klb…Klb…the insect guy? So yeah. They know me. I’m no threat. And, uh, I saw some Goblins running around a while back. They’re not here right now, but I felt you should know.”
The Drake sighed audibly. And loudly.
“Go on in, Human. Anyone can enter the city. The gates close at sundown.”
“Right. Thanks. Uh, have a nice day!”
Erin smiled. He didn’t smile back.
“I’ll just be going. Now.”
She walked past the guard. As she walked through the iron gates, she heard him mutter under his breath.
“Humans.”
Erin’s smile froze a bit on her face but she kept walking as if she’d heard nothing. Everyone was grumpy when they had to stand and deal with obnoxious tourists. And besides, he was just a guard. She walked through the imposing gates into the city. And then she had to stop.
Because she had entered Liscor. A city of Drakes and the Antinium and even more species she had not yet met, but saw walking and milling about. At least three she could see, all mingling and going about their lives. And now entering—
One Human.
——
The Drake at the eastern gates was still yawning when the young woman hesitated, then walked forwards into the city of Liscor.
There were barely any more [Guards] on his section of the wall either; visitors came from the north or, in the winter, the south far more often. Even the western approaches had a few farms, but the only people coming in or out were [Traders] or [Hunters].
One had stopped three-dozen paces past the gates. Erin Solstice stopped dead in her tracks because there…
Was a hyena.
No, a dog-person.
No, ahyena-dog-person. Her first instinct was to stop, because she was reminded of a werewolf, a rabid animal—but way bigger than even the largest wolves from her world. It was crouched over half a deer carcass, red with blood, and Erin looked back for the Drake with yellow scales—
Until she heard the voice.
“—by the tribes and fur knots. All the lice in Izril! All the lice in Izril and—and Raskghar on these stupid paving stones!”
It was a male voice, growling and angry. Then, Erin saw how the person had clearly tripped. The blood from the carcass was due to it tumbling out of someone’s grip. They were getting up, and when she caught sight of their face…Erin’s fears about an animal were unfounded.
The furry person had dark brown eyes, with faint pupils almost lost in the deep chestnut color. Their entire body was covered from head to toe in a similar chestnut fur that rippled with every movement. Erin could tell because the figure had on only a kind of hide leggings, and nothing but a weird kind of armband on their right arm.
She realized that was one of those things an archer had—an armguard. It went with the recurve bow on their back and quiver at their side. As they straightened, hefting the deer onto their back, Erin realized a few more things.
They had features like a hyena, not a dog. There was something…more poofy about their ears, and their face was more angular than most dogs’. A humanoid element that made them look even more expressive than a dog’s face.
Second? This—this person was six-foot-seven. They towered over Erin, and they had the muscles to match if they were carrying half a deer.
Come to that—Erin stared at the deer, because she knew deer from her home state of Michigan. This was abig one, possibly a buck? But the antlers were…glowing. They were an oaken brown at coronet, but turned cherry red at the tips, and the entire antler had a faint bright glow to it.
The hyena-person noticed Erin at last as they stood with a groan. They did a visible double-take, then glanced guiltily at the blood on the street.
“Apologies, Miss. Was I in your way?”
It was hard to imagine that—the street was a good two-dozen paces on each side, and there wasn’t anyone else in this particular spot. There was no sidewalk, but the paving stones were mostly flat…except in one spot where some shift had made one jut up treacherously.
Erin backed up instantly, waving her hands.
“Oh, no! I’m, um—sorry I didn’t help? Sorry you fell?”
The person gave her a blank look—then bared all their teeth. Erin froze up, and the figure looked confused. They closed their mouth and curved their lips up.
“Er…apologies, Miss Human. We don’t see many of your kind around here, yes? A [Trader], a traveller? No need to apologize. [Broader Shoulders] means only I can carry a deer back! Half of one, at any rate. If only I had a bag of holding large enough for an entire deer, eh? I wouldn’t make a Human help me lift one of these!”
They laughed and patted an odd bag next to their belt. Erin’s smile grew more desperate.
“Yes? No?”
The person stared at Erin with a quizzical look. A bit of blood dripped onto their shoulder, distracting them, and they cursed again.
“Tribes and tribulations. Excuse me, Miss. Watch the blood. If that [Guardsman] asks…pretend you never saw me. I’ve got to get this to the [Butchers] before the Acid Flies are all over.”
“The…”
This was so fascinating, but the figure was already striding off, and Erin, dumbfounded, had to catch her breath a second. And by that point, she realized that this was a city of more than just ant people and Drakes.
Erin walked down the first street, and then she began seeing crowds. In fact…that furry fellow was one ofthousands. Hundreds she could see in any given moment, which made her assume this city was home to at least tens of thousands. 
Drakes, Relc called his people. Not lizards—Drakes. They had scales of every color, almost always one color with perhaps some speckling of other scales at most, like freckles. But most had only one dominant scale color. 
Green or blue were the majority, but Erin saw a Drake with orange scales talking to another who was laughing and…gossiping? That was what it looked like as she held a claw in front of her mouth, whispering loudly to a group seated at a table. She had bright yellow scales and…a kind of tavern girl’s outfit on.
A medieval dress. But, done in a modernstyle if that made sense. With cleaner and far higher-quality fabric than Erin would have expected of the actual medieval ages. Like someone in a renaissance fair, actually. But…
The more Erin looked at the various types of clothing, she realized it wasn’t a one-to-one comparison with her world. The dyes were less vibrant and the lack of machine-printing meant that there were no logos, but a lot of fine embroidery. She saw a sigil of a city in the form of a badge on a passing Drake’s uniform and could tell it was an emblem because of the delicate gold thread surrounding the city with a sword and axe hovering over it.
On another hyena woman’s shirt was a silver fang embroidered in thread. And the lack of dyes also resulted in a more natural feel to the attire around her. Instead of neon-green, the brightest colors were a fine red shirt on one of the furred men, or plain white cotton on a very light dress under a thin, pale-blue outer layer.
The people here wore clothing bright and colorful enough that, at a glance, you might not realize how different it was. Erin’s t-shirt and jeans were still odd, but not uniquely so. If anything, it was being a Human that made her stand out.
Because these people werepeople, even if they weren’t Human. They were walking to work, talking, avoiding the fellow with the half a deer carcass on their shoulder—Drakes and the furry people.
No Humans. And no ant-people that Erin could see on this crowded street. The Drakes seemed to be the majority, but there was a strong minority of the…what?
Erin had no idea what to call them, but they were a tall lot, weren’t they? The Drakes varied in height roughly around Human standards, but the furry folk seemed to be taller on average. Bigger, too. There were male and female ones—Erin could tell despite the fur. And the female ones tended to have breastbands at the minimum.
A lot of the furry folk wore light clothing. Literally just a kilt or a kind of exceptionally loose pair of pants. A…toga? An actualtoga, yes! It must have been hot, despite the cool weather, for anyone with that much fur.
By contrast, the Drakes also had togas and fairly loose clothing, but some were dressed head-to-toe. Like the Drake with bright yellow scales whispering to some people at—an outdoor café?
She had a platter of drinks and some bowls on the tray, but she’d stopped to whisper to a gaggle of other Drakes.
“—broke up again. Hawk can’t keep a girlfriend for more than a month, Courier and gold or not. It’s his obsession with vegetables.”
“You sure it’s not him being…him, Drassi?”
“Oh, hush. He’s fine. He’s more Drake than you are. I’m just saying—”
The barmaid, or whomever she was, jumped guiltily as an angry Drake with black scales—aside from some grey-white ones around his head—came out, his voice raised. He had a smock, and he looked managerial. In fact, Erin realized she was witnessing a common sight from her world.
“Drassi! This is theeleventh time this week! I’ve told you again and again, stop gossiping. I don’t care what your class is—enough. You’re friendly, but you’re also fired.”
“What? But I can work harder! Come on, Mister Drells…”
The Drake protested as her friends coughed and tried not to be there. Erin’s eyes boggled at the sight of someone losing gainful employment before her eyes—and if that didn’t make this a city like home, she didn’t know what did.
The city. Now that she was done staring at the people, Erin realized this city was…well,stone. Streets? Stone. Walls? Stone. Not concrete or asphalt, but cobblestones stuck together with some version of cement. Not incorporating any faux-stone cladding. Actual, legitimately hewn stone that sometimes bore chisel marks.
It reminded her of one of those European cities, the older ones. A lot of the buildings were wooden, and most had at least two stories. There was even a sidewalk, but no cars, obviously. Nor were there any traffic lights or modern electronics in sight.
Erin saw wood shutters thrown open, a few people on outdoor balconies watering pots of flowers, and someone hanging clothes up to dry—but thankfully no privy pots being thrown into the streets.
In fact, she realized that the street not only had a sidewalk, but very familiar openings into…a sewer? The street looked fairly clean, and Erin was so busy staring that she didn’t hear the angry person shouting at her until she looked up and saw awagon rolling towards her.
“Get out of the way, you idiot!”
Erin ran for the side with a squeak of alarm. The driver on the wagon, another Drake, slowed the pair of ponies that stared at Erin almost accusatorially as the Drake—female?—managed to stop her vehicle.
“Are you blind? Stay on the sidewalk! I nearly ran you over!”
“I’m sorry!”
Erin called back as people turned to stare at her. The fired [Barmaid] perked up the instant she saw Erin.
“A Human? We haven’t seen one of them in…I wonder if another trade caravan’s getting here?”
The [Driver] paid no attention. She pointed at the huge wagon, and Erin realized those were the vehicles of choice. From footcarts to gigantic wagons larger than cars, loaded with goods.
“Sorry?Sorry? When this wheel runs over your foot, no healing potion in the world is going to get it back. Do you think I want that on my conscience?”
“S-sorry. I just didn’t see—”
The Drake glowered, but she flapped the reins, moving onwards.
“I don’t have time for this. I’ve got a delivery to run. Sidewalk! Use it!”
Erin was running afoul of everyone. Subdued, Erin scurried to the side of the street—and got into trouble again. Because she wanted to stop and stare, and this was a crowded city. Hundreds of people were all about, and they didn’t much like someone who stood still. Or Humans in general, it seemed.
Erin had come to a halt in front of a large building with writing on top. A lovely, wide sign…that she couldn’t read.
The language was different here. Exactly like the other words on the sign. It said, um…well, she had no idea, but there were two words and what looked like an apostrophe. But the real clue was what looked like a crystal ball and a magic wand with glowy bits. Some kind of symbol. Magic? Then Erin got in trouble again with the locals.
“Excuse me, Miss. Are you waiting in line for…?”
“One side, Human! Stop blocking the way!”
She jumped out of the way, and some impatient citizens strode into the building, which was getting good traffic in and out. Erin looked around. Every head turned to stare at her, and she heard that refrain again.
“Humans.”
“Excuse me—um—what’s this building? I can’t read…”
Erin looked from person to person, and one stopped to talk to her. That friendly yellow-scaled Drake had been drooping along, head hung low after being fired. But this novelty made her smile come back with an eager vengeance.
“What, the Mage’s Guild? You can’t read, Miss Human?Right, you don’t read Drake script. Are you looking for the Mage’s Guild? Runner’s Guild? Adventurer’s Guild? An inn to stay in? Stables? The Watch, maybe? I’m Drassi.”
The words broke over Erin like a rushing wave. The young woman lifted her hands.
“No! I mean, I’m just looking around. Nice to meet…I’m just looking for a—a store!”
The Drake gave her a bright smile. With too many teeth. She bared all her needle-sharp teeth, and Erin gulped.
“What kind of store?”
“Uh—I—just looking, thanks!”
Erin fled, feeling embarrassed and awkward. The Drake scratched at her neck spines as Erin hurried off.
If she kept moving, she could be part of the crowd. After a while, Erin was less flustered. She walked down the street and became, well, part of the city’s traffic. That allowed her to observe.
This city is huge! At least, she thought so. There were so many people she wondered how many lived here. Tens of thousands? Hundreds, probably. And all packed into the walls, not spread out.
Hence, there were no real suburbs, just residential streets with four stories of buildings next to or above shops. Erin saw the fellow who’d killed that odd deer again, depositing his kill with the [Butcher]. He was having a hard time.
“You just gave me a damned Corusdeer. Half of one.”
“Yes. And?”
The man had his arms folded as the Drake harangued him.
“Where’s the other half? You didn’t skin it first? You’ve ruined the hide—and there’s dirt on this part! Did you drag it back?”
The other figure growled.
“I dropped it once, okay? It’s not bad, no! And as for cutting it in half—I thought I saw a Shield Spider nest near me. They would have been over the kill—and me—in minutes. The hide’s fine. You can make boots out of what’s here. How much for it all?”
“Typical. You go for the top half because the antlers are worth money to the [Alchemists]. Nevermind the intestines being good for sausage or all the organs like the liver and—stop growling at me. I know, Shield Spiders. Damn it. Alright…let me check the quality of the meat. Give me a few minutes. And get a bucket of water and wash yourself off. You’re going to attract Acid Flies.”
A butcher’s. Or was it a [Butcher]? Erin saw more of that oddly cursive writing on storefronts, helpful sign posts…she guessed that this city would be easy to navigate. If she could read.
Oddly, everyone spoke the same. The furry fellow had a bit of a rolling ‘r’ to his voice and a growling tone, just like the Drakes elongated their ‘s’ and ‘l’ sounds, but they were speaking perfect English.
As for the butcher’s shop, what made Erin stare was theglass window. It had glass! It was the first glass she’d seen, and it astonished her because she hadn’t expected to see any in what she took to be a medieval world before they had access to the stuff in bulk. Wait, didn’t churches back then have glass? The point was she didn’t expect to see it in widespread use.
But glass was visible in a few buildings, and the more she looked, the more she noticed it. It wasn’t ubiquitous, but it was a window here, a pair of spectacles there—and one huge building with tons of people entering and exiting had a wand and a crystal ball icon over the front.
And then she wandered into an open plaza, and her mouth dropped. There were benches, even a park with trees and a playground over there! In this city! In fact, rising at one end of this plaza was a distinctly governmental building. It had large pillars, an open frontage that had less traffic, but a very familiar-looking sigil. The same one on Relc’s badge.
“That must be city hall or something. And the place with the wand—was that a magic shop…do they teach magic there? Do they sell wands? Wow.Wow. And I just need to find…a regular people shop.”
She was still overwhelmed, but Erin could catch her breath in the plaza with no one growling at her to keep moving. She took one breath, then another, then tried not to hyperventilate.
“Okay. Okay. I was lost before. I can do this.”
She had, in fact, been lost in a big city before. The key was noting where the foot-traffic was going. Erin guessed that led to places people shopped or did…things at. She kept monologuing; a lot of people were standing around or watching the children play. Again, Erin saw no little ant-people like Klbkch.
“What do I do if I get super-lost? Remember that street name. Squiggly line…got it. And if I can’t remember it or find my way back? Amsterdam, chess tournament. Start crying and ask where mom is…No, wait, I’m older now. Uh—uh—”
She heard a loudsnorting sound from the side. Erin turned, and three dozen paces away, another furry person covered their mouth. They were laughing—at her.
“Sorry! We overheard, yes?”
They were a duo, male and female, watching a little boy run around on all fours. He was either naked or clothing didn’t matter with all his fur on. Erin turned beet red as she realized the parents had…heard her? She hurried off towards the most crowded street. Just try to blend in.
…After five minutes of walking, Erin realized she was lost again. She stared hopefully at another building with one of those broad frontages. Then she looked around. She peeked through a window and saw someone, another Drake, idly sitting at a wooden counter, head propped on one chin. Erin took a deep breath.
Then she went inside.
——
“Uh, is this a store?”
Every head in the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor turned at the voice. Grizzled Drake warriors sporting scars from their heads to their tails, inhumanly tall furry people, most carrying bows, and several people who looked like mages, wearing robes or carrying staves, appraised the speaker who had just walked into the building.
A small Human. Possibly female. She stopped uncertainly the moment she noticed all the armor.
Unlike outside, the people in this building were not civilians. Civilians didn’tclank when they moved or sat down. These people, adventurers, wore armor, even in the morning, and they carried no daggers or shortswords, but had battleaxes strapped to their backs, longbows resting against the walls.
The figures at tables or clustered around a billboard appraised Erin for one heart-stopping second, then their eyes shifted away in disinterest. After a few seconds, Erin’s heart started beating again. She decided that this wasdefinitely not the shop she was looking for. She almost turned and ran again when a voice rang out.
“Ah, hello? We can help you over here.”
A voice called to Erin across the low murmuring. She saw a green-scaled Drake, her scales as fair as light grass under sunlight, waving at her from behind a counter. She looked faintly bored, but peered at Erin with less instant hostility than most people in this foreign city.
She was much smaller and had thinner limbs than Relc. Erin guessed she was female on the basis of her voice. The dress was also a big clue: light blue and flowed like running water, two straps along her shoulders providing support.
Hesitantly, Erin made her way over to the counter. The female receptionist gave her a close-lipped smile. She scrutinized Erin up and down and then launched into a rehearsed, if tired, spiel.
“Good day, Miss. How can we help you today? Do you have a bounty or request to post? Or are you registering?”
“Registering? Quest? Oh no, I’m not here for…uh, anything. I just thought this might be a store, so I…”
“Oh, I see! No worries, Miss Human. You’re just in the wrong spot, but I can give you directions if you’d like.”
The receptionist smiled again. And because she didn’t seem hostile or annoyed, this time Erin smiled back.
“Oops, sorry. Uh, where am I?”
The Drake chuckled as if it weren’t obvious.
“This is the Adventurer’s Guild. That lot didn’t tip you off?”
She nodded to the armed people lounging around. Erin blinked and her eyes went wide.
“The Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Didn’t they have one back in your city?”
The Drake raised her brows in frank disbelief. Erin stared around the room with renewed interest. Now that she wasn’t being pierced by a thousand glares, she could take in the building properly. It was a large place, and, at first, Erin thought she’d walked into an inn. Or a bar. But now that she knew what she was looking at, the receptionist behind the counter made a lot of sense.
“N—I mean, I’ve never been in one before.”
She wondered if that was a stupid thing to say, but the Drake just flashed her another big smile, reassuring.
“That’s quite alright. Not everyone needs to use an Adventurer’s Guild. Most never will, hopefully. If you’ve never needed any services, let me give you the basic explanation. Here you can let the Guild know about dangerous monsters in your area, post quests and offer rewards, or if you’re an adventurer yourself, you can go look at assignments or receive your reward.”
The receptionist pointed to a large wooden board nailed up against one wall. It had quite a lot of parchment stuck to the wood, and several large and burly adventurers were gathered around it, talking amongst themselves.
“Wow.”
Erin studied the adventurers. They were all wearing armor, although the quality and amount varied from person to person. Most of the Drakes seemed content to wear only armguards or the occasional helmet without much chest armor, but several of the large hairy dog-hyena-people were wearing chainmail, and in one case, real plate armor.
That wasn’t all, of course. Some adventurers weren’t wearing any armor at all. But they were all armed. Erin spotted several Drakes wearing light robes and carrying staves or daggers at their belts. One even looked like they were wearing armor made out of some dark, glossy material. It didn’t look comfortable, but they definitely looked ready for a fight. Erin whispered as she saw one of the Drakes flick a claw and produce a few sparks, to the amusement of her companions.
“Real mages. That is so cool.”
“…Miss? Excuse me, Miss?”
Erin looked around. She realized the receptionist had been trying to get her attention for some time now.
“Oh, I’m really sorry. What was that you were saying?”
“Are you a traveller, Miss? Or maybe…an adventurer? Are you here to register?”
The look the she-Drake gave her said this wasn’t much of a possibility. But she was very friendly, and Erin tried to explain.
“Oh no. I’m, uh, an innkeeper. I guess. Or maybe a wanderer? Actually, I’m just new around here.”
The receptionist looked interested. She sat up a bit and added a different emphasis to the class than Erin had.
“An [Innkeeper], is it? Are you opening up a business here? Humans almost never move to Liscor. I’m Selys, by the way. I should have said so from the start. My apologies.”
Selys offered Erin a hand. It was such a Human gesture Erin had to smile as she shook her hand. It felt weird touching the cool scales, but not unpleasant. She was almost worried about the claws, but she didn’t even feel a prick as Selys returned the smile, again, without teeth.
“I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. And no, I’m not, uh, innkeeping here. I live outside the city. In an inn a ways away. I guess. I just came here, because I needed to go shopping. Badly.”
She indicated her ripped and stained clothing. Selys eyed that with a slow nod.
“Well, I can’t leave the desk, but I can give you some directions. No wonder you were lost—you can’t read any of the signs, can you? Your people normally stick to the north; Esthelm’s as far as most get. What brings you out so far? Oh, and what are you looking for?”
“Um. A teleportation spell got me here? And I need food. Flour, oil, butter, salt…that kind of thing. And I need clothing. Lots of clothing. And toothpaste!”
Selys gave Erin a longer look, as if trying to see whether Erin was joking or not. She replied after a moment.
“Well, if it’s food and general supplies you’re looking for, try the market two streets down from here. To get to it, just take a left as you walk out of here and then turn right, and you’ll be there in no time. They’d also have some clothes there, but I’m not sure if they have any made for Humans. What kind of teleportation spell did that? You mean,people teleportation? Gone wrong? That would be a huge scandal. Anyways, the market will have everything you need.”
“Oh, that’s great. Thank you so much. About how I got here—I don’t know if it was an accident or me—maybe teleportation! But um. Right now I’m just trying to get by. So the market is two streets down and left and right…?”
Erin had already forgotten the directions. Selys repeated them, then mouthed what Erin had said.‘Maybe teleportation’?
Erin was too flustered to notice. She could memorize most of what she needed pretty easily, but when she was nervous, things slipped. She wished she had her smartphone or Google Maps. A map would be useless since she had never learned how to read them.
“I’m also looking for a place to get some other supplies. I don’t suppose you know where—”
A large, hairy hand grabbed Erin by the shoulder and pulled her around.
“Huh?”
Erin was looking at a wall of brown hair. She was sure that wasn’t there a minute ago. She looked up.
A hyena’s face stared down at her. Or rather, a hyena’s face on a humanoid body covered in fur. It was one of the adventurers in the guild and it—he—didn’t look happy.
But he wasn’t saying anything. Rather, he waslooming. Erin could tell it was looming by the way he stood and the way she felt like an ant. She didn’t know why he was angry at her. Maybe he just wanted to pick on someone. She opened her mouth and tried diplomacy.
“Um. Hi. Are you—are you a wolf-person?”
It was definitely the wrong thing to say. The pissed-off look on the hairy hyena-guy’s face only got worse. He growled at her in a rumbling voice that sounded like…well, what Erin imagined a dog would sound like if it could talk.
“Do Ilook like a Wolf Beastkin?”
“N-no?”
Erin backed up a step and found the counter was right behind her. She looked over her shoulder and saw Selys gazing at her worriedly, but the receptionist didn’t come to her aid.
The not-werewolf leaned over and growled in her face.
“I’m aGnoll.”
His breath wasterrible. Erin felt weak at the knees just smelling it.
“Right. I’m very sorry about that. Um. Can I help you?”
“You’re in my way. This is foradventurers.”
“Right. Sorry. Sorry about that.”
Erin stepped to one side so he could get to Selys. He didn’t move forward, though. Instead he just glared some more. A few more seconds of glaring made Erin stutter.
“Is—is there something else you want?”
The Gnoll twisted his neck andcracked it. It sounded like firecrackers going off and scared the hell out of Erin.
“I don’t like Humans. They smell.You smell like garbage. Like rancid oil and flames and things that turn my stomach. And Goblins and dust and mold.”
Erin stepped away again, but the angry Gnoll just followed her. She knew she was being watched by the other adventurers in the room now. But, like Selys, they seemed content to watch the Human-bullying without making a move.
“R-really? I can’t smell anything.”
“That’s because Humans can’t smellanything.”
The comment came from behind Erin, but she was too scared to turn around. It had the same growling quality to the voice though, so she was sure it was another Gnoll.
“Right. Well. I’m sorry about that.”
Erin tried to sidestep the Gnoll, but he blocked her way.
“I don’t want Humans in here. You don’t belong.”
“Hold on, now. She’s just lost.”
At last, Selys came to Erin’s aid. The female Drake leaned over the counter and called out to the Gnoll. Now, Erin realized he had a bag of dripping something. There was a long, bug-like leg sticking out of it, he was covered in green blood—and some red—and he looked tired and angry.
“If you’ve got a bounty—Shield Spiders—I’ll process it now. But this Human was just asking directions. You can’t just kick someone out who—”
He looked at her andsnarled. Selys flinched and shut up.
Across the room, Erin saw the Drakes in the room stir. One of themhissed softly.
The Gnoll glared at the Drakes, and they glared right back. One of his hands twitched towards the sword at his side, but he didn’t make any move to grab it. Still, the tension was so thick that Erin was sure if a Gnoll or Drake moved the room would explode.
Erin was wondering whether she should run when the Gnoll broke off the staring contest and swung around to her.
“You. You’re stinking up this place with dirt and filth. I cansmell the things you’ve rolled in. You haven’t washed in—dead gods. I’m covered in Shield Spider guts and you smell worse! Take a bath before you come back here.”
He jabbed at Erin’s stained shirt with one pointed claw. She jumped back nervously from the long, filthy nails.
“Oh. Yeah. Um, I’m really sorry about that. It’s just that I’ve been sort of fending for myself, and I didn’t have a change of clothes so—”
The Gnoll leaned forward. Erin could see the individual whiskers protruding out of his snout. She could smell his rancid breath. But she was mainly focused on his jagged teeth.
“Begone.”
Erin hesitated. She cast one glance towards Selys, but the receptionist wouldn’t meet her eyes.
The Gnollgrowled, and Erin backed up. He herded her towards the door, and once she was out, he slammed it shut behind her. The last thing she saw was Selys waving at her guiltily. 
That was the first building Erin was kicked out of in her visit to the city. It wasn’t her last. Not by a long shot.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:30:30)
Deposit your typos at this location. Forsooth.
Stick! (2023-03-05T08:45:58)
Not a typo but an inconsistency – the Drake [Butcher] was complaining that the Gnoll [Hunter] should’ve brought him the top half of the Corusdeer. But when Erin ran into the Gnoll earlier, she clearly noted the dead deer’s glowing antlers.
j0e (2023-03-06T12:24:02)
Either you misread or it was changed already, because the Butcher is complaining about the top half, because there’s useful stuff in the bottom half too.
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-06T17:56:36)
It was changed!
MurrayDemSkull (2023-03-10T02:22:05)
Raskghar was used as an epithet by that gnoll with the half-corusdeer, but isn’t that a little-known name/secret even amongst the Gnolls? Just wondering for consistency-thanks and love this story! Dab!
juppie (2023-03-11T14:50:56)
They had scales of every color, almost always one color with perhaps some speckling of other scales at most, like freckles.
–>
They had scales of every color, almost always one color with perhaps some specklingon other scales at most, like freckles.
Or
They had scales of every color, almost always one color with perhaps some speckling of othercolored scales at most, like freckles.
Flameburst (2023-03-14T11:06:51)
Man, it is surreal to read about timid Erin. The rewrite has made the beginning much better.
Or I’m just already invested this time. Confirmation bias is a hell of a drug. Very much enjoying the read either way.
Grault (2023-03-14T20:02:35)
It was the first glass she’d seen,
I’m pretty sure she saw glass containing some of her foodstuffs.
sam (2023-06-30T07:08:40)
I amost felt the ‘growling’
Master of Buckland (2024-07-17T01:50:15)
Wow! Such a better introduction to Liscor and teaser of the characters. I’m very impressed by the quality step up in the re-write.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T20:37:27)
Man that was so unfair towards her , I could never really understand people bias properly so being rude to others just due to first impressions never made sense to me either. But I am gonna assume the place or people have some bad history with humans  and well strangers/outsiders entering new community is never easy, a great chapter overall tbh!
Sulfurious (2025-01-04T19:10:00)
“Drake, idly sitting at a wooden counter, head propped on one chin. “
Should this be one hand?  I’m not sure the number of chins this particular drake has but my assumption is one

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.12
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-12/

Erin walked through the city, feeling the unwelcome sun warming the back of her neck. She was hot, sweaty, and tired. But most of all, she was anxious. It was a terrible, biting pain in her stomach that refused to leave her no matter how much she tried to relax. Because she couldn’t.
She was lost. Not just geographically, but in every sense. Right now, she was making her way to the market Selys had told her about. But she was still lost.
She didn’t belong to this city. The people had been a mix of unfriendly or—well, not all of them had been bad, like Selys and that first Drake, but Erin was the outsider, and it wasn’t a pleasant feeling. She tried to take her mind off things by admiring the city.
It really was like an older city. True, there was a lot more roundness in the architecture of the buildings—a lot of gently sloping roofs and open rooftops rather than the angular buildings Erin was used to. Stone and wood and yes, glass, but it felt to Erin like one of the older cities of Europe—hallmarks of older architecture without the steel or metal that was everywhere in a modern metropolis.
It was pleasant to stare at this foreign architecture and feel like a traveller to some part of Earth she had never experienced before. The people were what really got to her.
They weren’t Human. No matter how long Erin stayed in the city and walked its streets, she couldn’t get over that. Every face she saw in the crowd was inhuman, and the majority of them were Drakes. There was the occasional Gnoll or other furry face in the lot, but they were mostly reptilian.
All kinds of reptilian, too. Long snouts, delicate spines on the neck, elongated neck, big eyes, slitted eyes, stub snouts. They all had very large teeth, though. Only rarely did Erin glimpse a walking ant man—or ant woman, she couldn’t tell—walking by.
Klbkch’s people were few and far between. Erin saw them scurrying along, sometimes in groups, other times by themselves, mostly with tools in hand, heads down, clearly on a mission. People avoided them almost as much as they avoided her, but it really said something that a Human was the person people stared at, even more than insect-folk. It was also adding to Erin’s anxiety.
She wished they’d stop looking at her. That was the one thing that made walking through this city so hard. While she was staring at the exotic sights and people, they were staring right back. And it seemed that they didn’t like what they saw.
Erin tried to walk quickly down the street. That way she’d avoid offending anyone else. She didn’t have a good record at the moment.
“Kicked out of three shops. And two homes.Andthen the Adventurer’s Guild.”
To be fair, some of themlooked like shops. Why no one put up any signs so people could tell the difference was beyond Erin.
“Well, there are signs. I just can’t read them.”
It was a funny thing. Erin couldspeak the exact same language as Relc and Klbkch, but for some reason, she couldn’t read anything they wrote. It was probably because…of magic.
“Magic. Either that or they’re all bilingual. Or trilingual. Or something.”
A Drake walking the opposite way down the street gave her an odd look. Erin shut up. Her habit of talking to herself was making her weirder than normal.
Still, that alone didn’t explain why it seemed like the entire city hated her. True, she kept walking into places and asking where she was, but that was…okay, that was really annoying. But she was just as unfavorably received on the street, it seemed.
“Move it, Human.”
“Out of the way, smooth skin.”
“Watch it, fleshbag.”
Actually, no one had ever said that last one to her. Or the second one, either. Or the first, in point of fact. They didn’t say anything at all, really. Almost all of the Drakes stared at her, while the Gnolls and other furry people walked as far away from her as possible. But they all watched her constantly.
Some glanced out of the corner of their eyes. Others were less discreet and openly stared at her. Erin saw a few small Drake-children pointing at her and felt out of place. In a sea of scales and fur, she was the only Human. She felt so alone it hurt.
Erin turned right and found herself on another kind of street. This one was wider, had cobblestone paving, and a lot of wooden stalls. It was a market.
“Finally.”
Erin sighed with relief and walked forward. She’d finally reached her destination, and it had only taken her…an hour. Possibly two.
And better luck, Erin seemed to be in the section selling food. Tons of shopkeepers stood or sat in their shaded stalls displaying bins full of food. Here was a Drake selling weird blue-leaved plants that looked like oversized white carrots…or dead maggots. There was another Drake cutting meat for a waiting customer as flies buzzed around his stall. And there was—
A Gnoll.
Erin passed by a larger stall than most, tended to by a tall Gnoll, although they were all tall in her eyes. This one seemed to be selling a lot of stuff, and not just food. Erin was tempted to stop and browse, but the Gnoll shopkeeper complicated things. She was dithering when the Gnoll spotted her and roared out above the general hubbub.
“You, Human! If you’re looking for a bargain, shop here!”
Erin’s heart jumped. Gnolls were, like Relc,loud. And her voice had put every eye back on Erin.
Yet, the Gnoll woman had bared all her teeth then caught herself, closed her mouth in a tight-lipped smile, and beckoned Erin over. She wore a kind of animal hide sarong, albeit lined with some soft cloth on the inside, a breastband of the same material, and little else. Mostly because her shop had a thin canopy that meant she got the most of the sun, standing or sitting in it all day.
Her fur was spotted with jet black dots, but the rest of it was russet brown and, Erin thought, neatly combed or maintained. She was at least six-foot-something, and her smile was direct, even if her eyes were slightly calculating. But she did smile without a hint of anger or annoyance, and she’d called to Erin. So the young woman hesitated and then walked over to the stall.
As she approached, the Gnoll’s nose wrinkled and she waved a paw in front of her face. Erin’s heart sank, but the Gnoll made no comment.
“Well, what are you seeking?”
The Gnoll looked intently at Erin. She looked angry, or maybe Gnolls always sounded brisk and impatient.
“Oh, um. I’m just looking.”
“Can I get you anything? What are you looking for?”
“I’m—I’ll just look around if that’s okay.”
“I…could help you find what you want. Krshia’s Silverfang Goods. Do you have anything you want or—?”
It was entirely reasonable, but Erin began sweating at once. She backed away a step.
“No, I’ll just wander around and—look. Thank you.”
Erin edged back from the Gnoll’s shop. She really didn’t want to be chased out of the market yet.
“Hrmf. Suit yourself.”
The Gnoll looked away. She was definitely annoyed now, even if she hadn’t been before. Erin backed away and looked towards the next stall.
This one looked equally promising. And better yet, it was tended to by a Drake. Which wasn’t that much better, true, but at least he wasn’t wrinkling his nose. Maybe because he wasn’t looking at her.
Erin approached the stall carefully and gazed at the many items on display.Let’s see. There were lots of bags piled up neatly, and in front of them there were little bins of their contents on display. That was good since Erin couldn’t read any of the words on the store signs.
But there! She saw flour, salt, and even sugar on display along with other dried goods. The Drake was selling dried sausages that hung from hooks at the top of his little shop, dried onions and garlic in baskets, and a number of dried roots and spices in one corner of the shop.
“Hi. Is this a food shop?”
The Drake looked over at her.
“What does it look like, Human?”
Erin winced internally at the tone of his voice. But he wasn’t wrinkling his nose still or glaring. He just looked annoyed.
“Oh, I’m looking for food. Lots of it.”
She heard a very loud and angrysnort come from the Gnoll shopkeeper. She winced, externally this time.
“What you see is what I have.”
The Drake indicated his goods with a wave of one claw. That sounded like an invitation to Erin, so she stepped inside the stall and peered around. Flour was what she was most interested in. With that and a bit of oil, salt, etcetera, she could make bread, pasta, and other filling things. It was the best place to start. She bent down to examine the flour—
“No touching the food with your filthy hands unless you’re buying!”
The Drake’s voice made Erin jump away. She caught herself before she fell backwards. He was glaring at her.
“Don’t touch. You’ll stink it up with your Human smell.”
“Sorry. Sorry.”
Erin backed away from the goods on display, hands raised. She guessed she reallydid smell.
The shopkeeper directed his full and unhappy attention towards her.
“What do you want? Name it and I’ll fetch it for you.”
“Oh, okay.”
Erin floundered.
“Um. I’m looking for a few things, actually. Uh, do you have any butter?”
“It’s right there on the sign.”
The Drake tapped the little piece of paper pinned to the stall. Erin looked at it desperately, but just saw squiggles and lines in all the wrong places.
“Uh. I can’t read that. Sorry.”
Hehissed softly in annoyance. Erin winced again.
“But I’d like some. Butter, that is.”
He slowly and grudgingly turned and pulled out a small pot with a small cork for a lid.
“Oh. Great.”
Erin wasn’t sure if she should ask to see how much butter was inside. She wanted to hold the little pot too, but the shopkeeper’s expression also vetoed that idea.
“And, uh, I’d like some oil too. Do you have another jar…?”
The Drake sighed loudly in annoyance.
“I don’t have all day to play fetch for you, Human. Just tell me what you want to buy first.”
“Okay.”
He wasn’t throwing things or chasing her away, so that was as good as it was going to get, Erin guessed. She took a deep breath and rattled off whatever she could remember she needed.
“I’m looking for some flour, salt, butter, oil, and sugar. Oh! And yeast. I’ll need yeast too. If you have it.”
The Drake didn’t move.
“Anything else?”
Erin looked around quickly.
“Um. Those sausages. How much do they cost?”
Erin pointed to the sausages hanging from a hook. They looked mouthwateringly plump. She had the idea she could fry some up with the pasta. Just the thought was making her stomach rumble.
The Drake’s eyes flicked over to them.
“How many?”
Erin rummaged in her pocket and pulled out her precious coins. She saw the Drake’s eyes widen just a fraction as she showed him the mix of silver and bronze and two gold coins.
“Well, if I’ve got enough, I’d like to buy a few of those. And some onions.”
There weren’t many vegetables here. Only some garlic and shriveled roots in one bin. But she could always go to the Gnoll and ask—well, maybe not the Gnoll. But there were probably other shops that sold produce.
The Drake eyed the coins in her hand and flicked his eyes up to her. Erin felt like she was being assessed, and she didn’t enjoy the feeling. For all she was a paying customer, he still looked like he was angry at her for some reason.
At last the shopkeeper seemed to come to a decision. He flicked his tongue out of his mouth and glared at her.
“Two gold coins. Eight silver. That will buy you a bag of flour, oil, butter, four sausages, two onions, and a bag of sugar, salt, and yeast.”
Erin hesitated. She eyed the meaningless symbols on the little plaque again. The Gnoll shopkeeper to Erin’s left seemed to be having a breathing problem. She was choking on the air. Erin glanced to the side.
“Are—are you sure that’s the price? I mean, it sounds like a lot—”
“Are you calling me aliar?”
The Drake raised his voice angrily. Erin could see other customers and shopkeepers looking around.
“No, no! I was just saying that—”
“Typical Humans. Walking in here, stinking up the market, and insulting any non-Humans you find. You should be grateful the Guard doesn’t run you out of the city! First that damn [Necromancer] comes here, and now this smelly one that can’t evenread.”
“Lism!”
The Gnoll woman hissed, but he ignored her. The Drake seemed to be inflating with rage. Erin didn’t know what she’d done to set him off—besides the smell—but she tried to be diplomatic.
“Look, I was just asking about the price.”
“I just gave you my price. Take it or leave it.”
“But can we negotiate? I mean, how about two gold coins? What’s the price of the flour? If I pay you—”
The Drake shopkeeper let out a strangled hissing sound.
“Human, I have a business to run and a store to manage! Either pay me my price or be gone. You won’t find a better offer in this market.”
Looking around, Erin guessed that was true. She was getting unfriendly looks from the other shopkeepers down the street, especially the Gnoll whose wares she’d walked by.
“Okay. I’ll buy it all.”
She placed the gold and silver coins on the counter since he wasn’t holding his hand out. He eyed the coins, sniffed once, and swept them away.
“Here. Your food. Take it.”
The shopkeeper began grabbing items and slamming them down on the counter. He shoved them all together in a huge untidy pile and threw a few dented copper coins down too. Some rolled onto the ground.
Erin hesitated, but the shopkeeper’s scaly back was already expressively turned away. She heard what sounded like hissing laughter and muttered comments from behind her and turned red.
Slowly, Erin bent down and began picking up the fallen copper coins. She tried to avoid looking at anyone or anything.
When she finally stood up, the shopkeeper was looking at her expressionlessly. He flicked one claw towards her.
“If you’re done grubbing in the dirt, I have more customers to serve.”
Erin knew her face was red. Her eyes were burning, but she was determined not to do anything else. She took a deep breath and tried to steady her voice as much as possible. Still, it wobbled a bit as she said one last thing.
“…Can I buy a bag?”
——
Erin sat in the shade of one of the buildings and stared silently at the four silver coins in her hand, which was all she had left after buying a large cloth bag and the food. It wasn’t so bad. She still hadsome money, and she’d bought enough food for now. It was just enough for…well, she didn’t know. But it certainly wasn’t enough for a lantern, much less a sword. She doubted it was even enough for her clothes.
She’d started out with two gold coins and a full handful of silver and copper ones. And in an instant, they’d been spent. True, she’d bought a lot of food. Stuff like sugar was expensive, right? Especially in a place that wasn’t modern like this. It was just…she couldn’t help but feel it was a mistake.
She hadn’t seen any other shoppers trade gold coins for what they’d bought. Not one and especially not that much for some food. She had a bad feeling in the pit of her stomach. She thought—
No. Sheknew she’d been ripped off.
And it hurt. It really did. Erin wanted to go back there and punch the Drake shopkeeper in the face, but she had a pretty good idea of what would happen if she did. Plus, he could probably eat her face if she tried.
So. Erin sat and stared at her hand. Four silver coins.
She could still go shopping with that much money. She could find another market, find another shop, and…
And do what? She didn’t know how much money things cost, and she didn’t know how to buy clothes for herself.
Everyone in this city wore clothing, but the definition of that really varied. Some of the male Gnolls wore extremely exposed clothing, sometimes leaving their chests completely bare save for a light cloak, while the female ones usually had more on. Still, even that was varied because it seemed showing skin—or rather, scales—was the fashion around here. Only the Drakes seemed to adhere to a dress code she was used to.
It was one of the hidden truths of the world. Money was useless if you had no idea what to spend it on and everyone ripped you off.
Everything would be so much simpler if she could read. Was that too much to ask?
Erin put her head on her arm and closed her eyes for a moment. Her head jerked up, and she nearly smacked it against the building behind her as she realized something.
She couldn’t read. But she knew people who could.
Relc. Or Klbkch. Either one of them would know all about clothing and money and stuff like that.
Erin stood up. She pocketed her silver coins and wished she’d thought of thisbefore she’d lost all her money. But maybe four silver coins was a lot of money? She’d have to ask. And they’d help her, surely. Because that’s what guardsmen did, right? Just like how police officers were so willing to help anyone who came to them with a problem.
Erin pushed that thought out of her head. Guardsmen were not police officers. They were allowed to kill people without due process, for one thing. But Relc liked her pasta, and he and Klbkch had been kind to her. Now all she had to do was find the guardhouse without being able to read the signs.
She started walking down the street, looking around for anything that screamed of jail cells or law and order. She tried very hard not to think about what she’d do if Relc or Klbkch were both off-duty.
——
Relc was off-duty. So was Klbkch. But for the moment, Relc was lounging around the mess hall of the guard’s barracks. He was playing a game where he tossed a wickedly sharp dagger up into the air and caught it as it fell back towards the floor. Half the time, he caught the dagger. The other half, he missed or knocked the dagger flying. He sat in a widely vacated corner of the room.
Only a few other Drakes were sitting at the long wooden benches, chowing down on hard bread, cheese, and unidentifiable strips of meat. Well, unidentifiable to Humans. It was more grey than red.
One of the guards was talking with his fellows. He stood up and approached Relc cautiously. Unlike Relc, his scales were a very pale blue, and he was smaller if not shorter than the other Drake. He cleared his throat while standing at a respectful distance from Relc’s game.
“Hey Relc. I hear there’s a Human wandering around the city.”
Relc looked up and missed the dagger as it flipped down.
“Ow.”
The other guardsman sighed as Relc sucked at the point of red blood oozing from his scales.
“You’ve got no talent for that game. If you didn’t have [Thick Scales], you’d have cut your hand off years ago.”
Relc smiled smugly.
“[Iron Scales].”
The blue Drake rolled his eyes.
“That explains everything. What kind of level do you have to be to get that, anyways? No one else has it, so it must be high level.”
“It is.”
Relc began trimming his claws with the dagger. Although in his case, he wasn’t making the nails shorter, just sharpening them.
“It was the last skill I got from my [Sergeant] class. I think you get it in [Spearmaster] as well, but I don’t know. Either way, it’s a life-saver.”
“I’ll bet. No wonder you don’t worry about hurting yourself, you smooth-scaled bastard.”
“Now, now. Don’t be jealous.”
Relc swept the nail clippings off the table with one hand.
“Too bad I never got any dagger skills. I can’t understand how this stupid flipping works.”
“Then stop flipping. It’s annoying, and you keep nearly hitting people. Remember poor Tkrn the day he signed up? He still flinches whenever he sees a dagger.”
“No. If Klbkch can do it, so can I. Anything that damn bug can do I can do better. But hey, what’s this about a Human? Is it that female one I was telling you about?”
“Not sure.”
This time, another green Drake jumped into the conversation.
“Belsc—the guy on eastern gate duty—he didn’t say much other than that he thought it was a Human female. What was the name of the one you met?”
Relc scratched his head and looked up at the ceiling.
“Um. Erin something. Sol? Solace? It was something like that. Erin Solace? Did he mention anything else about her?”
The blue-scaled Drake bared his teeth.
“Yeah. He said she was really annoying. And she talked too much.”
“That’s her.”
Relc laughed. The other Drake shook his head as a few more [Guards] glanced over.
“Humans. I don’t know why you’re interested in this one. It’s certainly not the smell, to hear Belsc talk.”
“Yeah, you get used to that.”
Relc leaned back in his chair and played with the dagger. He smiled to himself, warming to his theme of stupid Humans. It was a popular topic in Liscor—especially with the annual Blood Fields battle almost upon them. He felt a tiny bit guilty, but he was also still mad about yesterday.
She’d chosen a [Necromancer] over him. Which was just Humans sticking to their own kind, so Relc kept talking as he trimmed at his nails.
“Still, she’s interesting. Erin, or whatever her name is. She makes a mean plate of pasta, let me tell you. And she’s tougher than she looks—I didn’t think any Human could survive out in the Floodplains that long. She’s funny too.”
He grinned as the other guards made disparaging noises. Relc raised his voice.
“Hey, I’m telling the truth here. Little Miss Human isn’t that bad. You should meet her. But let me tell you, she can also be pretty annoying. Remember that [Necromancer] guy I told you me and Klbkch tracked down? She wouldn’t let us kill him even after he blasted us both with a few spells. Just kept saying that he wasn’t that bad.”
“Stupid Humans.”
“I know!”
Relc nodded in agreement with the other guard.
“They’re interesting and entertaining, but they don’t have much inside their fleshy heads. I’d never trust a Human to have my back. Drakes stick together and Humans do their thing in the north, am I right?”
Relc looked around for confirmation as the other Drakes laughed with him. He laughed boisterously until he saw the young woman staring at him across the mess hall. His laughter cut off instantly.
“Oh.”
The other Drakes looked over in curiosity at the Human female. She wasn’t that special to them; one Human looked much like any other. She was staring at Relc, who looked extremely uncomfortable.
He cleared his throat.
“Um. I—”
The door closed behind Erin as she walked out.
A nasty silence fell over the mess hall. Relc looked at the others.
“How long was she here?”
The blue Drake shrugged.
“Dunno. She must’ve walked in while you were talking.”
“Oh, bite me.”
Relc leapt up from his chair.
“Hey, Miss Human! Wait! I didn’t mean it!”
The other Drakes watched as he dashed out of the room. Then they turned back to their conversation. One of the Gnolls flicked his gaze towards the blue-scaled Drake, who looked slightly smug at how everything had gone down.
“So. When did you spot her?”
“Right at the start. Did you see her expression? Relc’s not gonna have an easy time explaining that.”
“Serves him right. But did you smell her?”
“Yeah.Humans. They don’t wash.”
“I hear they roll around in their own filth.”
“Disgusting. Why’s Relc interested in one anyways?”
“Why do you think?”
“I still don’t get it. There’s no scales, nothingfirm to grab. What’s the point?”
“Search me. Maybe it’s just Relc. He’s weird.”
“True.”
“Anyways, Humans. Haven’t seen one in a long time. Did you see it? Sofleshy.”
“Disgusting. Let’s go eat some meat.”
“Agreed.”
——
Erin walked out of the city gates and through the grass. She walked as fast as she could, which wasn’t very. The cloth bag she was carrying was more like a satchel, and it was loaded down with a lot of stuff. She was impressed that it could fit the bag of flour and other ingredients she’d bought without the fabric breaking, but it also meant she had to carry all of that on her shoulders.
The bag of flour was quite heavy. But Erin carried it anyways, ignoring the pain in her right shoulder. Her left one was already sore. She’d switch shoulders when the pain became unbearable.
“Hey! Miss Erin! Wait!”
Erin kept walking.
“Oh come on. Please?”
Relc appeared next to her in a blur. He was quick for such a huge guy. Erin turned her head so she didn’t have to look at him directly.
“So, how’s my favorite Human doing? Good? Bad? Um. I, uh, don’t suppose you heard what I was saying. It was just a joke, really. I didn’t mean…”
She kept walking. Erin’s feet were already sore, but she put one foot in front of the other. She had a long way to go to get back to the inn, and the bag she was carrying was heavy.
“Look, I know I was sort of—okay, I was rude, but let’s talk. Hello? Are you listening?”
Erin didn’t look at him or speak. She just kept walking. Put one foot in front of the other. She was so tired and sore she barely felt hungry.
——
Eventually, he went away. Erin kept walking though. She was trying to make it back to the inn before the sun set. It was going to be a close race.
She was about halfway to her destination when the first stone flew over her head. Erin instinctively ducked and so the next two stones missed her and landed in the grass. She looked around.
At first, she couldn’t spot where the stones were coming from. Two more missed her, but the third struck her on the shoulder.
“Ow.Ow!”
Erin spotted the origin of the stones. It was a Goblin. The small creature was hard to spot in the fading twilight. It was standing on a hill and hurling rocks down at Erin. And it wasn’t alone.
Two more Goblins screeched and threw stones at her from their hilltop, making her flinch away and pull the bag up to shield her head. But then they just pelted her legs. They were bigger than the first one and staring at her burdens.
Her food. They wanted her food, and they’d laid an ambush! Erin tried to shield her head with the bag of flour and got a sharp strike to the chest.
“Ah. Ow.”
She covered her face with her arms. The stones kept flying. And theyhurt. Even at this distance, the rocks cut her arms and bruised her flesh. Already, she felt blood trickling down one arm.
Erin knelt on the ground and shielded her head with her bag. That made her less of a target, but the barrage of stones continued. It wasn’t as if the Goblins could hurt her, not so long as they kept hitting her back, but they just didn’t stop. And if she got up, they’d aim for her head.
What could she do? Erin felt the stinging hail cut into her back. She had to run. At them? Away? They’d steal all her food if she did. But could she attack them? Fight? If she got any closer, the stones could gouge out her eyes, injure her badly. What could she do? What could she—
Something moved past Erin in a blast of air. She flinched and looked around, but it was already gone. Then her eyes travelled to the hill. Someone was rushing at the Goblins, ducking under the stones and deflecting the ones that came close to his head with a fast-moving…spear…?
“Hey! Slither off, you little bastards!”
The stones stopped flying abruptly. Erin heard a high-pitched scream and several heavythwacks. Cautiously, she got up and looked around.
The Goblins were running away in full retreat. Relc stood on the hilltop, spear in hand. He waved at her and leapt down the hill in a few long strides.
“Hello there, Miss Erin. Fancy meeting you here.”
Erin stared up at him. He offered her a toothy grin and a hand up. She stood up by herself and picked up her bag.
Relc cleared his throat expectantly.
“It’s not often I get to rescue a damsel in distress. That’s what they call Human females, right? Damsels? Anyways, I saw you were in trouble, so I immediately rushed to help.”
“Thanks.”
Erin began walking again. She heard Relc follow after a second’s hesitation.
“Okay, okay. So they weren’t that dangerous. And I was just doing my job; true. But Iam sorry. Really. I said too much back there.”
She said nothing. Her vision was blurring over from the cutting pain of the bag’s strap as it carved a groove into her shoulder.
“That looks heavy. Here, let me carry it for you.”
Relc reached for the bag. Erin pulled away.
“No. I’m fine.”
“Oh come on. Don’t be like that. I just—well, it was just me being careless, alright? Let’s talk. Please?”
Erin tried to walk faster, but her legs were already giving up. Relc easily kept pace with her. He was even able to walk backwards faster than her.
“Look. I’m very sorry, Miss Erin. Let me carry your bag. It must be quite heavy, and this way we can talk without one of us falling over.”
Erin grudgingly slowed down. It was a tempting offer. Her legs were screaming at her to accept Relc’s generous offer and have him carry her as well. Her shoulder was already in another dimension of pain.
“Fine.”
She unslung the bag, wincing as blood returned to her arm. Relc lifted the bag with one hand and slung it over his shoulder. Then he kept pace with Erin as if nothing had happened.
“So.”
“So.”
Relc scratched the spines on the back of his head, looked down, looked up, and sighed.
“I really didn’t mean it. It’s just—[Necromancers], y’know? They’re dangerous. And it’s best to kill them on sight. You ever seen a thousand zombies trying to eat anything in sight? Even if they’re low-level, even if they play nice, I could never trust a [Necromancer].”
“Especially not if they’re Human.”
“I didn’t say that.”
“But that’s what you think.”
Relc didn’t have anything to say to that. They both walked on in silence, faster now that the bag wasn’t weighing Erin down.
“So. You bought food, huh? Making lots of pasta tonight?”
“I’m going to sleep.”
“Right, right. But, uh, good to see you made it to the city. So how’d you like it?”
“It’s fine.”
“Good, good.”
Relc was clearly casting around desperately for subject matters. He peeked into the bag. Erin could practically feel him salivating.
“Sausages. Mm. But hey, why didn’t you buy any clothes? I thought all females loved clothes, Drake or Human.”
Erin’s stomach twisted. She avoided his gaze and mumbled.
“I didn’t have enough money.”
“What, really?”
Relc looked at her askance and peered into the bag he was carrying.
“No. I mean, there’s food in here, but that’s only a few silver coins at best. I’m sure you had more than that, right? How much did you spend?”
Erin felt her face heating up. She looked at the ground.
“A couple gold coins. Some silver ones.”
He stopped. Erin didn’t. She heard him muttering to himself and then swearing. It sounded like swearing. He loped forwards and was next to her in an instant.
“Really? What kind of rotscale sold you—why did you spend that much money?”
She stared at the grass as she trampled it. It was tinted with a lovely deep orange color in the sun’s fading glow.
“I just thought it was the right price, I guess. I didn’t want to argue.”
Relc muttered under his breath and sighed in exasperation.
“Well, I could go back to the market and ask around. But—I don’t suppose you caught the name of the store.”
“I can’t read the language here.”
Relc sighed again. Deeply.
“Right, right. Well, if you remembered his face, I could find who sold you all that, but I doubt anyone’d bear witness against him. And there’s not much for me to go on. I mean, he sold you overpriced goods but itwas your fault as well. No offense meant, Miss, but how’d you trade a gold coin for a sack or two of flour?”
Erin couldn’t think of anything to say to that.
“Sorry.”
They walked on in silence. At last, the inn was in sight. Erin trudged up the last incline, her legs screaming all the way. She paused at the door.
“I can take the bag now.”
Relc hesitated.
“You sure? I can carry it in—”
“I’m sure.”
Erin accepted the bag, and her legs wobbled. She opened the door with one hand.
“Right. Thanks.”
She wanted to close the door, but Relc held it open effortlessly. He scratched at the back of his neck awkwardly.
“Look, I’m still really sorry about before. I didn’t mean—well, I’m sorry. I’ll make it up to you, I promise.”
Erin looked up at him. She just wanted to close her eyes. But he seemed sincere. So she mustered a bit of sincerity herself.
“Thanks for helping. With the Goblins.”
Relc gave her a wide, toothy grin.
“It was nothing. They’re no threat to me or anyone with a few levels in any warrior class. But don’t worry about those pests. I said I’d make it up to you, didn’t I? I’ll do something about them.”
Maybe it was an empty promise. But it made Erin smile a tiny bit.
“Thanks. Good night.”
Relc curled his tail up and flicked her a salute with both hand and tail at the same time.
“Until later, Miss Erin.”
Erin watched as he rapidly disappeared into the dark landscape. She vaguely envied the speed and effortless grace with which he moved. Then she closed the door.
——
The moment she threw the first stone, the littlest Goblin felt bad. Especially when it nearly hit the Human in the face. But she had to, because the two older Goblins made her.
They’d found her sneaking around the inn and had pulled at her ears. Hard. She was wasting time when sheshould be gathering things, making grass baskets, or doing something for the tribe.
She had screeched and protested, but then they’d all seen the Human coming back to her inn.With food. They could smell it.
The older Goblins, male and female, had debated. They knew that the warriors had lost to her and they had no chance of killing her even with their rusted daggers. But if they threw stones, she’d have to drop the food. Then the littlest Goblin could run down, grab some, and run off.
The littlest Goblin was so hungry—always hungry—that she did what they told her to. They were tossing stones down at the Human as she shouted at them. Just some food! Justdrop the bag! The older Goblins were aiming at her eyes, but the littlest Goblin pelted the Human’s arms.
Then the scary Drake appeared, and they ran. The littlest Goblin fled, screaming, then hid in the grass and crawled away. Only after an hour did she get up and run back to her cave.
It was a bad day, and she was hungry.And—the littlest Goblin was sniveling already when she got back to their hidden cave—the two older Goblins would tell the Chieftain she had wasted time and that they hadn’t gotten food.
They were always mean to her. Always made her go with them gathering food or sharpening knives…or told her to stop counting birds andhelp gather food. They poked and prodded and pinched her ears more than most, because they had made her.
Somehow. Just like Goblins were born, the littlest Goblin had a vague idea of how it all worked, but those two were hers. Not that it meant they were nicer; they found her when she sat and tried to think or have fun and dragged her back.
Sometimes the two gave her food even when there wasn’t any to go around and showed her how things worked. Sometimes they got mad and poked and hit her if she wasn’t working, but it seemed to her like they always found her even when she was hiding, as if they knew her better than even the Chieftain.
She skulked into the tribe’s cave, wishing she had a Skill to make herself hide. She was waiting for the Chieftain to roar at her or just for aswat. But the tribe was busy eating.
Spiders. Cooked spiders in a big pot with water. It was…not good. Even for them. But it was what they had, and a few eggs made it taste like something. The littlest Goblin actually got a bowl and brightened up.
Maybe she wasn’t in trouble! She was sure she’d get only half her food because she was in so much trouble. She looked around for the two older Goblins and didn’t see them. Maybe they were still after the Human’s food?
She felt a pang in her stomach at the thought of being punished later. So she went back to her collection of sticks and rocks and thought of how much food that big place had to have. Acity. The Chieftain sometimes said the other peoples had all kinds of good food, but behind those walls. They couldn’t even raid a caravan; there were too many dangerous Drakes or Gnolls or Humans, with steel armor and magic.
But what if you could get in there? Could you hide and steal some food and live there? Couldthey have a city like that?
The littlest Goblin was so caught up in the idea that she distracted herself for a long time, wondering what that Human had done to get an entirebag of food. Flour. She knew it from the older Goblins coveting the powdery stuff. You could make all kinds of things with it. Thick soup, crunchy bread, or just eat it raw and…
“Where?”
A growl brought the littlest Goblin out of her stupor. She jumped in fright and then saw the huge Chieftain’s face an inch from hers. She tried to run, and he grabbed her by one leg.
The time for punishment had come. The littlest Goblin dangled there as the Chieftain held her. She began to babble excuses—shemeant to steal the Human’s food—and saw a quizzical look on his face.
“Where? Two?”
He shook her and gestured eloquently to the two empty pallets of dried grass. Then the littlest Goblin realized…he didn’t know about her sneaking off and wasting time. He wasn’t mad at her for that.
He wanted to know where the other two Goblins were. The littlest Goblin stared at the blank pallets and realized there had been a bit more soup, because they’d never come back with her.
Were they still out there, trying to steal the Human’s food? Maybe sneak in when she was asleep? She babbled an explanation and instantly got abonk on the head.
Sniveling, she clutched at her head as the Chieftain roared at her. Go find them! And bring back food!
She was afraid of the dark, but more afraid of his wrath. So she wormed her way out of the cave and ran back to the inn. She searched around a few hills, hoping the other two would see her and scold her and she could bring them back to the Chieftain. If they had to steal from the Human…
Then the littlest Goblin smelled something on the air. Somethingwet, like iron. She froze in place, and a Drake stretched as he stood up.
“Got you bastards. You can’t run from Relc! Damn, I thought there were three of you? Whatever. If Erin doesn’t love this—now I need to find some wood. Damn. I should be having dinner!”
He chortled to himself and whirled a spear up and brought it down in one movement. So gracefully. The littlest Goblin didn’t understand what he was laughing about, but she smelled something familiar in the air. Something like metal. Something like…
She stared down at the two bodies in the grass. The Drake hummed as he drew his sword.
“Two coppers per ear…nah. Stick. Stick. You’ve gotta put them on sticks and—you know what? She can figure out how she wants to mount them.”
He gathered a pair of round objects up as the little Goblin stared down at him from her hiding place. She didn’t move. She didn’t breathe. She just looked at the two little bodies the Drake kicked down the hill. He walked off, humming under his breath in the night.
——
It was just before dawn when the little Goblin crawled into the tribe’s cave. The sleepy [Warrior] on duty growled at her—then noticed she was still alone. He nearly swatted her, but then smelled her. Then…he backed away and pointed to a slumbering mass.
The Chieftain woke up with a huge growl of anger. He looked at the littlest Goblin, raising a fist—
She didn’t think she said anything. She just sat there, mumbling down at the ground. And the Chieftain…
The grumpy Chieftain sat there and did not hit her. Though it was surely her fault. He picked up the littlest Goblin, tossed her into her sleeping pallet, and sat there.
Head lowered. Head bowed. The other Goblins in their tribe sat around him or worked mechanically, dully and silently.
But the Chieftain just stared at nothing. Stared at the smoky embers of the fire. Though the smoke stung his eyes—he did not weep. Goblins didn’t weep. Even the littlest Goblin. But the Chieftain stared down at the ground. Then he reached for something.
His axes. He stood slowly and asked one question of his tribe.
Where was that Human? The littlest Goblin didn’t know if he’d heard her wrong or if he was looking for the Drake. The Chieftain walked out of the cave.
She did not stop him. She just sat there. Wondering why today had been like this.
——
There wasn’t much light, so Erin just put the bag in the kitchen and lay down on the floor of the common room. The old linens she’d piled up to make a bed made her sneeze.
“I need to buy fresher pillows. And blankets. Or laundry detergent. When I have the money for it.”
Instead, she just used the cloth bag she’d bought as a pillow. Erin tried to get comfortable on the hardwood floor, but the very nature of it was giving her a…hard time. Besides, her shoulders ached. Her legs still hurt from the long walk. And if it were only that which hurt, she would already be asleep.
But instead Erin lay in the silence, listening to her heart beat. She wanted to say something, to think something, better. But there wasn’t anything. So she stared at the hazy shapes in the dark room. It took a long time before her eyes closed.
[Innkeeper Level 6!]
This time, she said nothing at all. She just cried for a bit before she fell asleep.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:30:39)
Deposit your typos at this location. Forsooth.
Bryan (2023-03-06T14:19:53)
I love the new Relc content! Can never have enough Relc.
Thari prasad (2023-03-08T17:17:00)
Poor erin :(
MurrayDemSkull (2023-03-10T23:13:32)
Erin mentions yeast, just looking at consistency again-think that was brought up later as an ‘Erin invention?’ Thanks for the chapter! Great to have the other perspectives, harder to go through the characters growing pains again!
Grault (2023-03-14T21:00:31)
It wasn’t as if the Goblins could hurt her, not so long as they kept hitting herback [bag]
Kris (2023-03-16T20:37:31)
I don’t think her asking for yeast would change that… but wasn’t her thing Baking Powder?
MurrayDemSkull (2023-03-18T02:12:40)
Oh, yep, you’re right
Scrifty (2023-11-07T04:13:06)
Damn you got me feeling sad for the little goblin.
Kell (2023-11-14T21:42:18)
This is hella relatable content. Geeze. I remember times I got ripped off like that. Absolutely cried later at night. Kinda wish Erin had broken when Relc asked and said something like, “I don’t know anything! I don’t know where I am-” and give a little tirade as she cried. Folk needa see how much she’s hurting and how much help she needs. It’d humble Relc too, for him to see that.
Radarwave22 (2023-11-19T20:10:53)
Damn it really frustrates me that she didn’t tell him any details on how the store owner looked like. ? ???
yagoldt (2024-01-09T03:17:48)
I’m frustrated at the protagonist. She wastes so much time doing nothing, or even worse doing something which ends up being something stupid. How does she only remember about Relc and Klbkch after she already went to the city like?? You forgot?? Going to the city unarmed, with no object to carry things.
She has been at this inn for quite a while and she still sleeps on the floor… There are other rooms and beds upstairs!! Has she even taken a good look at this place?
And so on and so on…
deadinside (2024-01-21T21:17:06)
im so angry!!! ( ??´)/ Poor Erin. (T^T)
July (2024-02-27T01:20:38)
I’m appalled at how incompetent this girl can be. The worst thing to do in a situation like hers is to flinch at anything and everything always saying sorry for no reason and the most stupid mistake that even a child wouldn’t make was to show her money to the shopkeeper while having no idea as for the price
Kosake (2024-04-09T09:54:35)
I couldn’t agree more. It’s so frustrating. Granted, she is rather young and inexperienced, but still. She’s acting as if she’s still back home in her world. If you’re in a completely alien world, which you know jack all about, you’d be wary and kept your cards close to your chest. I mean she doesn’t know the rules, their language (she can’t read it), customs and above all the people. Heck! She doesn’t even know how she got there! You’d thing she would havesome sort of consideration beside “Oh, it’s gonna be a nice stroll through City”. Maybe her [Class] as an [Innkeeper] does play tricks on her mind and, who knows, explains her absurdly naive and inexplicable behaviour (ignores friendly gnoll shopkeeper and does business with the sneering condescending and rude drake instead. WHAT?!). Maybe that’s just who she is. Hopefully she’ll learn in time.
Aeri (2024-05-27T22:43:17)
You both are forgetting a few important details. She’s been there for under a week, and only lightly rinsed off in a river once. She’s been burned, cut numerous times, otherwise attacked by goblins multiple times, smacked by a giant fish, etc.
Erin is basicaly a hobo at the moment. In our world, she’d be lucky a lot more places didn’t simply kick her out or refuse service entirely. A hobo bumps into you on the street, and you wouldn’t expect a “sorry” from them? Right. Acting non-conciliatory in her situation would probably lead to pretty bad circumstances, compared to being meek as she is.
Yes, she could have been smarter about some stuff, but not everyone is great in social situations. Especially when those situations are way, way out of their comfort zone.
She probably didn’t think it would be a nice stroll through the city, but she also probably didn’t imagine it being ahostile stroll, either. She would have no reason (yet) to know humans were not really welcome. Immediately prior to getting to the market, her last interaction with a gnoll had been a very hostile one – it’s not strange at all that she chose to not shop with the seemingly friendly gnoll after that, even if the drake shopkeeper was rude.
It’s all well and good to say she was incompetent, but I highly doubt most anyone would dothat much better than her, given her current circumstances.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T21:19:50)
This was quite a sad chapter, but it couldn’t be more real.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.13
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-13/

Erin woke up tired and bleary-eyed. She mechanically got up and remembered that she’d forgotten to gather any blue fruits. She looked at the bag full of food she’d dragged all the way to the inn. It was too much work to make pasta or bread, so she ate one of the sausages instead.
It was dried, too salty, and had lots of gristle. Even though Erin was starving, it wasnot the best thing she’d ever eaten. But she ate it anyways, chewing until she could swallow the greasy meal.
Dully, Erin wondered how long it would take for her teeth to rot or her gums to start bleeding. Not too long now.
It wasn’t a good day. But at least she had food. And if she didn’t have money, at least it was a new day.
With her stomach full, Erin felt a little better. Ready to face the day, at least. She made a mental list of what to do. Gather blue fruit first. Then she’d make some pasta, some bread, and then she’d figure out how to—
Knock. Knock.
Erin jolted upright. Someone was at the door. Was it Pisces? Well, it was just another headache for the day. She’d deal with him and—
Knockknockknockknockknockknock—
Itwasn’t Pisces. Erin got up and went over to the door. Whoever was there was seriously excited. Too energetic at this time of day.
Erin yanked open the door.
“Who thehell—oh. It’s you.”
Relc grinned at Erin. He was holding something in one hand and his spear in the other.
“Good morning, Miss Human! It’s me, your favorite [Guardsman]! And how are you doing this fine morning?”
Erin blinked at him. It was far too early to have to stare at a giant lizard grinning at her with a mouth full of sharp teeth.
“Hey Erin, I’ve just taken care of your Goblin problem for you! Took all damn night, but that’s how much I wanted to apologize. See?”
Relc raised his spear triumphantly. A bit of something fell to the ground. Erin blinked and stared at it. Red.
She looked up and saw red blood dripping down the spear, running along Relc’s claw and onto the floor of her inn. Relc noticed that and pulled the spear back outside.
“Sorry about that, Miss Erin. You see, I was just disposing of the Goblins. Call it me making up for yesterday. But now that they’re gone, the others should leave you alone, especially once I set these up around the inn. Uh, do you have any sticks? I need some sticks or something.”
Relc lifted the objects in his left hand. Erin looked at them and saw two melons. Green melons? No.
Her eyes went back up to Relc’s grinning face. She stared at his bloody spear. He was talking, but the words were suddenly impossible to make out over the buzzing in Erin’s ears. She looked at his smile. She looked at the spear, still covered in drying red blood.
She looked down and saw the heads.
There were two of them in Relc’s claw. He’d grabbed them by their ears, and the force was already tearing the dead flesh. Each one’s eyes were still open, their lifeless expressions twisted in fear. Blood still dripped from one, down into the eye sockets of another.
Erin’s eyes wandered up and away from the heads. She stared out past Relc’s shoulder. It was a beautiful day outside. The sun was shining. The sky was blue. There wasn’t a cloud in the sky.
She looked down at the heads. They were still there. She looked up at Relc. He was still speaking, but stopped and looked at her in concern. He dropped the heads carelessly to the ground. Erin heard each onethump wetly on the floorboards of the inn.
Relc raised his clawed hand and reached out for her. The same one he’d held the heads with.
Erin threw up. She vomited up the sausages, choked, and threw up some more.
“——————!”
She felt a hand holding her, helping her upright. She pushed away at it, retched.
“——? ——. ————!”
Her head was spinning. Her ears were filled with a piercing, high-pitched sound.
“——————? ——?”
Erin looked around. The heads were still there. She threw up again, but there was nothing left. But still, she threw up bile, and then retched and retched until she couldn’t breathe or think.
“——!”
At last, Erin stopped. She felt strong hands lifting her up and felt herself being sat in a chair in the inn. Relc’s anxious face peered at her, and she felt his hand on her temple. She stared past him at the heads. They were lying on the floor of the inn. Their eyes were open. Blood had dried on their faces.
Erin took one deep breath. The world spun around her, and she heard nothing. Just static. She felt numb, like she was in surgery. But underneath that numbness was something terrible.
She looked at Relc. The Drake was fussing over her, trying to get her attention. She looked back at the heads. Then she began to scream. He reached for her, with concern in his eyes. A blank look of uncomprehending concern. Then…confusion. Frustration. Outrage.
The Drake looked down at the two heads on the ground and laughed. Through the ringing in her ears, she saw him kick one slightly with a toe, then recoil and clap his hands to his earholes. He stared at her. Then he shouted, threw up his hands, and turned. Came back, pointing a finger, and she—
She kept screaming, like that wordless howl in her ears.
——
Erin walked outside with the two Goblin heads in her arms. They weren’t cold. They weren’t warm, either. They were just fleshy. Heavy, fleshy. And dead.
She made sure not to drop them as she walked. She didn’t know where she was going, only that she had to find the bodies. She left the inn behind and began walking.
Relc was gone. He’d left sometime earlier.
She didn’t remember anything. Just flashes of her screaming at Relc toget out and hurling things. Screaming, crying, vomiting. And then the heads. Picking them up where they lay.
Erin walked with them in her arms. Everything was going by too quickly. One moment she was inside, the next she was out, looking around for…for…
The bodies.
The dead bodies were lying out in the open. Two corpses lay in a bed of trampled grass at the base of a hill. There was nothing—graceful about it. There was no dignity. Just flies, buzzing already. The Drake hadn’t done anything, just removed their heads and presented them to her like a trophy. Like an apology gift.
Erin stopped. She placed the two heads on the ground and walked over to the bodies. They told a story. She wasn’t good at forensics or anything like that, but she could still read what had happened. The blood was still wet on the ground.
Two died…there. At the top of the hill, running. Relc had probably cut the first one down in an instant. The other had run, but not far. He’d made it only a few steps before a spear had stabbed him from behind. Multiple times.
Erin looked at the bloody holes and felt nothing. No. That wasn’t right. She felt something. She felt so many emotions she couldn’t think. But they were buried deep within her heart. Right now, the numbness made her feel like she was in the middle of a silent world.
She placed the heads down next to the bodies. Which belonged to which? She looked at the cuts around each head. The…the cuts were too similar to match one to a body. She had to roll over the corpses to check the other side.
The sunlight kept their bodies warm. But they were still cold, and Erin’s hands were colder still. She flipped them over carefully and learned something else.
One was male, one was female. It was hard to tell from their faces, but they were distinctly a pair. The same who’d been throwing stones at her? Hadn’t there been three?
She didn’t know. Erin couldn’t think. The coldness grew worse. Erin began to shake. She crawled away to throw up, but found she couldn’t. So she went back and stared at the two bodies.
Their blood had long stopped flowing, but the grass was still red. They smelled, but only of dirt and blood. Not of death and rot. Not yet. But they were rotting. And in the sun, they would start to stink soon.
Erin knew this. She didn’tknow it, but she’d read about it. They would rot and attract bugs. They were already.
A green fly landed on one of the bodies. Erin stared at it. An Acid Fly. It fanned its wings and began to crawl over the male Goblin’s body.
She swatted it. The bug exploded as her hand struck it, and the acid burned her palm. Erin scrubbed her hand in the grass and rubbed dirt on her skin. It was raw and red, but she ignored it as soon as most of the burning had stopped.
She needed to bury the bodies. Or they would rot.
Erin went inside the inn. She came out a few minutes later holding a long wooden spoon. It was probably used for stirring one of the big pots. It would do.
She began digging in the grass where the bodies lay. It was hard work. She had to tear out the grass before she could pry at the soil. And even then, the ground wasn’t easy to break up. But she persisted, and the few clumps of dirt grew as she dug deeper.
Slowly. Like making a sandcastle at the beach. Erin dug down, and the pile of dirt beside her grew. The hole was small, and every time she tried to scoop out more dirt, the walls caved in. But she kept digging. And the pile of dirt grew.
At some point, the wooden spoon broke. Erin used her hands. They began to bleed after a while. She kept digging.
At last, the hole was big enough. Erin picked up the first body and laid it in the grave. It fit. It more than fit. The hole she’d dug was big enough for a Human, which meant more than enough to fit both Goblins inside.
They were such small creatures. Erin vaguely wondered if she should dig one more grave.
She looked down at her bloody hands and broken nails. No.
She placed the second body in the grave, next to the first. Then came the heads. She placed each with their body. One, and then two.
As Erin picked up the second head, she heard a sound. She turned around and saw the Goblin standing in the long grass.
The Goblin was small and ragged. It was wearing a grey, stained loincloth and a few rags tied to its chest. It held a small knife. It stared at Erin and the head she held in her hands.
Erin paused. Her head was still filled with static, but her mouth tried to say something. Too late. The Goblin rushed at her, screaming wildly and slashing with the dagger.
Erin stepped back. She held the last Goblin’s head in one hand and waited until the other Goblin was close. She leapt sideways at the last moment, and the small Goblin missed her. It turned, still flailing its weapon.
She slapped the Goblin as hard as she could across the face. Her hand made akrack as she sent the Goblin tumbling to the ground, and it lost hold of the dagger it was carrying. It whimpered and fled from Erin, scrabbling after the weapon in the grass.
Erin was still staring at the Goblin as it seized the dagger and spun to face her. It was small. So small. Like a child. This one was a child. But it had murder in its eyes.
Erin’s mind was still hazy. But as the Goblin stared at her in tense silence, she realized what she wanted to say. It came to her when she saw the tears running from the Goblin’s red eyes.
“I don’t want to kill you.”
It rushed at her. Erin stepped forward andkicked the Goblin in the stomach. She’d done that to a boy as a child, only now she was kicking a child.
The Goblin vomited and then curled up into a little ball of pain. It tried to scrabble away from her, but it was in too much pain. Erin stared at the Goblin lying on the ground. She still held the head of the other Goblin in her hands.
The smart thing to do would be to kill it. She’d level up, and then she’d be rid of one less Goblin trying to kill her. If she let it live, it would get reinforcements. She’d never be safe so long as they were around. They were dangerous monsters. They’d kill her in her sleep and eat her or do worse if they could. It was survival of the fittest. She’d pay for letting it live. It was it or her. She had to—
The thoughts ran through Erin’s head as she looked at the twitching Goblin. It was small. She turned and placed the last head with the bodies.
When she turned around, the Goblin was gone.
Erin put the last head in the grave and stared at it. Then she slowly began to fill in the rest of the grave.
It was a long process. Erin packed the dirt in tightly and made a mound of the rest. She pushed on the dirt and made it as firm as possible. Then she stared at the uneven pile of upturned soil.
Erin placed her hands together and bowed her head. Then she let her hands fall away. There were no words for her to say. So she patted the last bit of dirt into place and sat down on the grass.
The sun was shining. The sky was a deep, deep blue. She didn’t cry. She just sat and rocked back and forth as she stared at the grave she’d dug.
Erin didn’t blink.
——
She looked up when she heard the horn.
It was no echoing bass rumble of a dread army’s herald. And neither was it a clarion call to victory sounded upon a dark battlefield. It just sounded like a horn. But it was loud. And it made her look up.
A Goblin stood upon a hill and stared down at her. He was nearly a head taller than Erin. So he was very big for a Goblin, but small, still. His body was muscled and wide, but taut, as of someone starved for enough food. His head was covered by a rusted helmet, and he wore mismatched bits of metal armor on his body.
Even without being told, Erin knew he was the leader of whatever Goblin tribe lived around here. And she also knew he was out for blood.
Hers.
She got up slowly. It wasn’t that she was terrified; it was that she was still in shock. She backed away slowly as the Goblin Chieftain pulled something from behind his back.
Her thoughts scrambled together. The inn? Or the city? She could probably outrun him, but the other Goblins were sure to be nearby. So where were they?
Erin was so busy looking out for other Goblins sneaking up on her that she only realized that the Chieftain was holding a bow when he fired the first shot.
An arrow struck the grass next to her feet and quivered in the packed soil. Erin turned and ran.
A second arrow missed her as well. So did the third. The fourth passed through the gap between her pumping arms.
Erin crested a small hill and immediately dove. She hit the grass face-first and slid painfully, and the fifth arrow missed the spot where her back had been. She got to her feet to run again and saw the Goblins.
They stood together, a silent wall of small bodies and red, staring eyes. They were staring at her. Not many all told. Forty? Less? If she had to guess, it was a small tribe. Smaller than the one she’d run away from that first day. But they were all armed. She waited for them to charge. She waited to die.
Not one of them moved. They watched her, that was all. They made no sound.
One of them was quivering. It was standing close to Erin and holding a knife. A small knife, held by a small hand. Erin recognized it.
It was the ragged Goblin from earlier. It stared at Erin, and she stared back. She could tell it wanted to cut her, to attack. But it didn’t.
A horn blew from the other side of the hill. Erin looked up. The Goblin Chieftain. He was the one who was orchestrating it all.
So. She stared back at the Goblin. It stared back, hatred and death in its eyes. Crimson eyes. They were unnatural, monstrous.
But still, they were too much like a Human’s.
“I didn’t kill them.”
Erin said it out loud. She didn’t expect it to understand, but the Goblin jerked in surprise. It looked at her, searching for the meaning in Erin’s words. The young woman looked into those sad, crimson eyes and saw the pupils lost and staring. She spoke, her voice rasping.
“I didn’t kill them, but it doesn’t matter.”
It looked into her eyes. Erin looked right back. Then she got up and ran.
——
They didn’t scream as they followed her. That was the scariest part. The Goblin tribe followed Erin swiftly, running as fast as they could to keep up, but they didn’t move to cut her off. They just followed.
Maybe they would have stopped her if she’d run for the city. But Erin ran for her inn and so they let her go. They weren’t here to kill her. Just to watch.
Without being told, Erin knew this was different. If it were just a fight or them trying to kill her, they would have swarmed her and ripped her to shreds in an instant. But this was a hunt.
And the Chieftain was the one hunting her.
Maybe he thought she was easy prey. He was right. And he probably could have guessed Erin wasn’t the one who killed the Goblins. It didn’t matter. It was blood for blood. The oldest of vengeances.
Erin thought all this as she hurtled through the door of her inn and blocked it with as many tables and chairs as she could. She knew it as she scrambled to find a kitchen knife, a frying pan—anything to defend herself. And she knew it when she sat in a chair and tasted death in the air.
She gave up on looking for a weapon. She sat and stared at the door. She heard the Chieftain’s horn call far away and then again as he drew closer slowly.
There was nowhere to run. And she couldn’t fight.
It had dawned on her as she was holding the sharp kitchen knife. She’d been trying to imagine her facing the armored Goblin, dodging blows, countering with a slash and then cutting—
No. It was impossible.
She was no warrior.
Erin sat in the wooden chair and felt it rub against her t-shirt. She felt her hands, slick with sweat. She tasted blood from running too hard and felt each breath tear a hole in her lungs. She was alive. She knew she wasn’t dreaming.
And she knew she was going to die.
“Checkmate.”
She sat at the table in the inn and stared at the door. It occurred to her, suddenly, that this was the first time she’d sat around and really had a chance to think. Because this was, in a sense, the first time she’d ever had when she wasn’t reacting blindly to events.
Maybe if she’d taken more time earlier, she would never have come to this point. If she’d thought ahead, maybe she’d have asked Klbkch and Relc how much food was worth. If she’d thought for a second, she would have known what Relc meant by taking care of the Goblins yesterday. Maybe then she’d have stopped Relc from killing the Goblins.
But she hadn’t. So she was here. But it was a terrible thing, waiting. So Erin sat and thought.
“I’ll think. I’ll think for once about it.”
Erin closed her eyes and tried to ignore the horn as it blew from far away. The Goblin Chieftain wasn’t moving fast. He was probably walking, saving his energy for when he got here. He was in no hurry.
She thought about Goblins. She thought about how they had leaders, and how it was the leader’s job to defend his people. Maybe he didn’t care about them. And maybe he wouldn’t take revenge if it were an adventurer or guardsman that killed them and then went back into a city with stone walls. But what about a stupid Human living by herself out in the middle of nowhere?
She thought about the small Goblin who’d attacked her. She thought about families, and thought about her parents. She thought about the Goblin Chieftain and his axes and armor.
She thought about what would happen to her when he caught her.
“Checkmate.”
Erin whispered it again. It sounded wrong, for some reason.
Checkmate. She’d heard that word too many times. But those had been games. This was real life. And she—she didn’t want to die.
But she was about to. That was why she was sitting in the inn. Erin heard the horn blaring again in the distance and knew that death was coming. So. Checkmate.
Was it? She had to ask. Erin whispered to herself a single question.
“Is it checkmate or just check?”
Erin stared at her hands. She hadn’t washed them. And she could still feel the clammy, lifeless head in her palms. She sat in the inn and stared down into the lifeless eyes of the two Goblin heads.
Horn call.She looked up at the door. The big Goblin was moving slowly. He wanted her to be afraid. To despair. To panic. There was nowhere to run. And if the only options were to fight and kill or run and die—
“If only it were dying.”
Erin whispered those words. She didn’t want to die. But better than anything else. So. Fight. And kill.
“I can’t do it.”
But she had to. Erin started shaking. There was no option. It was as clear a choice as she’d known. She could run or hide, and maybe, maybe she’d succeed. But if he caught her, she’d have to fight and win. And to win, she’d have to kill him. It was kill him or give up.
“Checkmate.”
Did she have a fever? Erin’s body flashed between burning heat and empty cold. She was shaking, but something inside of her was calm. So terribly calm.
Erin closed her eyes. She knew. But she didn’t want to. Her mouth was dry, but she forced herself to speak.
“Oh Father who art in Heaven…”
Her voice trailed off. She’d forgotten the rest long ago. And there was no God to listen to her. No merciful god would condone what she was about to do.
Erin opened her eyes. She stared at her hands and thought. Who was her enemy?
A Goblin. Not just any Goblin, but a Chieftain. A leader among their kind. Strong? Yes. Stronger than the others by far. But maybe not that much stronger than a normal Human man. If she were better at fighting…
But he had two axes. And a bow and arrow. And he had levels, whatever that meant. He was a better fighter. And what did Erin have?
She looked around. She had an inn. She had a kitchen, the few supplies she’d bought from the city. She had a common room full of tables and chairs, an upstairs with no way out save through the windows. She had kitchen knives, pots, pans, and an empty fireplace.
Erin closed her eyes and thought. She opened them a minute later and knew.
A horn blew somewhere in the distance. Erin listened to it and heard her heartbeat drowning out her thoughts. She knew what she had to do.
Erin got up. Her ears were ringing, but the world was silent. She felt like a dreamer, walking through a sleeping world. Even the blaring horn call sounded faint. In this moment, she felt like she had all the time in the world.
Slowly, Erin walked into the kitchen. She bent and fished around in the bag of food she’d bought. There it was. Was it enough? It would be enough.
Erin looked around and picked up the cast iron cooking pot. It was small, but it would do.
All the embers in the kitchen’s fireplace had long since turned to ash. Erin tossed in a few pieces of wood and slowly bent to strike sparks. It was slow. The horn kept calling, louder and louder. But her hands never wavered. She was still dreaming.
At last, the fire caught. Erin fed the small blaze, and it grew slowly. She added enough wood and set the pot above the fire. It would be hot soon enough. The fire was growing.
That was it. Erin filled the pot to the brim with the item she’d taken from the shopping bag. Then she put the lid on the pot. Slowly, she walked back into the main room of the inn. And sat down.
The horn blew. It was from right outside the inn. Erin heard the Goblin’s heavy footsteps now, the rattle of his metal armor. He paused before the door.
Thud.
The door rattled. The chairs and tables blocking it moved from the force of the impact. Erin stared at the door.
“It’s all just a game.”
She whispered to herself. She didn’t believe it.
Thud.
Another impact. This time, Erin heard cracking. The door wouldn’t last. She had seconds left.
Thud.
The fire was starting in the kitchen. It would take time to heat the pot. Was it enough? It would have to be enough.
Thud.
The entire door shook. Erin saw the wood splinter around the hinges. She waited. Death was in her bones. But whether it was hers, she didn’t know.
“Knight to D4. Pawn to E3.”
She didn’t want to die. But it might be better than what came next. Erin closed her eyes.
“I truly hate this world.”
The door crashed inwards, and the Goblin Chieftain stepped into the inn.
Rags by ArtsyNada
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:30:46)
Deposit your typos at this location. Forsooth.
Robb (2023-03-05T09:36:54)
‘He was nearly a head taller than Erin. So he was very big for a Goblin, but small, still’
Originally, in the first re-write draft, there was ‘nearly an inch taller’, so the second sentence made sense then. But now he is 6 or more foot tall.
Scott (2023-03-05T21:00:03)
The gob chief became a hob chief a little further on in the original, so I was expecting this. Erin doesn’t know the word Hob yet. Maybe “skinny” or synonym would be better than “smaller” for clarity.
Quynin (2023-03-09T20:31:05)
She stared back at the Goblin
->
She stared back at the ragged Goblin
Switching from Hob to Rags here is unclear, as is.
Thaecrasis (2023-04-12T11:44:33)
I feel so bad for both Erin and Rags
Bob (2023-04-17T11:13:33)
I hope the little goblin stays alive
Sa A (2023-04-30T15:51:00)
Erin ain’t made for that world, but at least she’s adaptable.
sam (2023-06-30T14:47:32)
And she also knew he was out for blood.
Hers.
should be           Her’s
greycat (2023-07-16T19:56:25)
No, it’s correct as written.
greycat (2023-07-16T19:57:56)
> She’d level up, and then she’d be rid of one less Goblin trying to kill her.
Should be either “she’d be rid of one more”, or “she’d have one less”.
yagoldt (2024-01-09T03:36:39)
Once again I’m getting frustrated at the protagonist.
Why is she so afflicted that the goblins were killed? Why would she care? They tried killing her several times, the less of them the better, from all she knows they are just animals. And then she goes looking for the bodies to bury them… WHY? Why spend time and energy looking for them, digging (breaking tools, hurting herself in the process, getting exposed to another goblin to attack) when she could spend all that time and energy on other things that actually matter to her survival.
I really like the idea of this book and how it’s written, but the more and more aggravating things like this happen the more I want to stop reading.
Jonathan (2024-02-07T21:59:33)
With all due respect, it makes perfect sense. Erin quite obviously has never been confronted with Death before, at least not in this sense. Maybe she has gotten away with few to no deaths in her family, which is quite possible at the age of 20. Furthermore, the way Relc nonchalantly presented her with the 2 severed heads as gifts added to this. I would like to see how you would react to 2 severed heads of humans served to you on a platter. I at least can quite reasonably explain to myself her pacifist views…
Sbiiii (2024-03-06T09:17:28)
Yeah your right, imagined someone who hunts you or trying to kill you, while you run shouting and screaming on the first encounter, with near to death instances fighting with them, then you see your them again dead and you gone shock like you’ve lost a love one. Like what!!??
Zzzz (2024-03-18T18:45:33)
Having a hard time believing someone who plays strategy games so much is this bad at basic thinking.
Missmusicluver (2024-04-22T18:46:08)
Whywouldn’t Erin respond that way? She clearly has lived her entire life without any real first-hand violence. She’s going to be absolutely horrified by severed heads in any situation presented to her.
And yes, the goblins have harassed her. Yes, she’s been hurt by them. However, not only has she learned that they gain levels (which makes them… more real/anthropomorphized?), she’s learned that they have tribes. Families. They make baskets and hunter-gather. The little goblin was evenmore clever than Erin when learning about how to differentiate when blue fruits were bad.
They’re still people, and Erin just saw how easily they were brutalized and expected tocelebrate over it.
Aeri (2024-05-27T23:02:01)
It wasn’t just that they were killed. Most likely, if Relc had told Erin that he had killed the two goblins, she wouldn’t care all that much.
No, it’s the fact that he brought her two severed heads like a trophy.
Most people can’t even hold themselves composed when seeing a dead body, let alone one that had been gruesomely murdered. Being presented with two freshly severed heads? 99.99% of people would act almost exactly like Erin did.
Go read some accounts of EMTs or police on their first (or second, or even third/fourth/fifth/etc) instances of stuff like that. People that are trained and expecting it oftenstill react very badly.
Omni (2024-08-18T04:48:50)
Chess. She plays chess.
Someguy (2024-08-29T23:04:32)
This Is my least favourite chapter so far. Mostly because iam used to her talking alot and seeing her silent for most of the chapter made me really uncomfortable.
Also , one thing iam really afraid of is her befriending the goblins , which might happen from what i can tell from the synopsis of the story.
And i feel she is gonna cook them food. I dunno.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.14
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-14/

It was a beautiful morning. The sky was deep blue, and the sun shone down pleasantly. The inn felt so quiet, only one panting, ragged breath could be heard. It smelled like mold and faint dust. The floorboards, worn smooth by age, were slick with sweat from Erin’s palms. For a second, it seemed so peaceful.
The front door had a single locking bar of wood on it. The stout door and the band of metal around it splintered inwards as somethingstruck it. Louder than she could imagine anything sounding. A crash of wood. It barely lasted seconds as a second foot broke the rotted, weakened section of the door. A second—and the Goblin Chieftain burst through the door, charging into the inn.
His eyes were burning red orbs, swiveling as he lifted a pair of axes. He wore ragged fur armor, rusted chainmail, and he stood a head over the young woman, who flinched as hehowled. Erin stood up and grabbed a chair, arms shaking so badly she could barely hold it up.
The Chieftain grinned as he whirled and spotted her. He glanced at the chair Erin was holding and then dismissed it. His eyes lingered on Erin. Her face, her body—she didn’t like the way he was looking at her.
There was worse than malice there. Hatred. All the intent in the world. Hatred and a shaking rage. Erin hesitated. The chair was in her hands, and she’d raised it to throw. The Goblin Chieftain was looking at her with all these terrible things behind those eyes.
But why was water leaking down from the corners of his eyes? She spoke, the words escaping through the tightness in her chest, like a balloon filled to bursting with fear.
“I don’t want to hurt—”
The Goblin Chieftain roared and charged Erin. Sofast. He put his shoulder down and hit her before she could even throw the chair. Erin barely felt the impact. She did feel it as she smashed through the table behind her. The chair she was holding flew out of her hands. She felt something in her body crack.
The Goblin lifted one of his axes. Erin lay on the ground gaping like a fish. He swung down. She rolled left, and the axe splintered the floorboards.
Away. Erin threw herself over another table and felt the other axe miss her by an inch. She picked up a chair and hurled it at the Goblin. He swatted it down with one armored hand contemptuously.
The table was between them. Erin tensed to dodge left or right, but the Chieftain grabbed the table andpushed. He rammed the heavy table into Erin’s midsection like a cannonball and then flipped the table.
A wall of wood came up and crashed down on her. Erin lay under the table, stunned, until she felt a thick hand grab her by one ankle and drag her out.
The Goblin pulled Erin from under the table and laughed at her. She lay on her back, eyes unfocused. He pulled aside his loincloth and pulled her towards him. Erin looked up at him and felt horror beating in her chest. He bent down to rip her clothes off—
She kicked up, right at his groin, with all her strength.
The Goblin caught her leg easily. He grinned at her again. With his other hand, he grabbed her other leg—
Erin sat up. Her legs were caught, but her hands weren’t. She punched the dangling target right between the Goblin’s legs.
His eyes bulged, and the huge Goblin roared and threw her away. Erin tumbled over and got to her feet. He was clutching at his private parts. She grabbed a chair, and this time, she didn’t hesitate.
Erin brought the chair down on the Goblin’s head with a heavythump. Once. Twice. Then the Goblin punched at her.
She saw the punch coming and tried to block with the chair. The Goblin’s fist smashed through the wood and knocked Erin off her feet again. She got up and felt her mouth filling with blood. The world was swimming crazily to one side. She had to…
The Chieftain picked up his axe, cursing her in a language she didn’t know. Erin scrambled away. She was near the kitchen.The kitchen. She dashed inside and slammed the door shut.
There. The pot was sitting over the fire, and black smoke was coming out of the lid. Erin reached for it and felt the burning heat. Gloves. There was a rolling pin on the counter but no gloves or oven mitts. Where were—
The door exploded inwards with a terrificcrash. Erin turned and saw the Goblin Chieftain. He lifted his hand again, a blurred gleam of metal—
She ducked. The axe whistled through the air and struck the wall. The second hand came up, and she swung the rolling pin. Itcracked across his face.
His nose broke. Erin felt it break, but she lifted the rolling pin and hit him again. His other axe dropped from his hand, clattering to the floor. Erin didn’t reach for it; her burning arms just lifted the rolling pin higher and brought it down.Hit him. She had to hit him while he was stunned. Blood rolled down his face as he stared at her. Hit him. Hit—
Shk.
Something heavy hit Erin in the midriff and pushed her back. She stumbled back a bit and regained her footing. Something was weighing her down though. Something was…Erin looked down.
A knife was sticking out of her stomach, just above her waist. Her kitchen knife that she used to gut the fish. It was too far on the left side. It wasn’t symmetrical. And it was in her. In her.
Erin tugged at the knife. It was stuck. She pulled and felt—the skin around her stomach tried to pull itself out with the knife. She clenched her stomach muscles andpulled—
The knife came out with another terrible tearing of flesh. Erin stared at the blood on the blade. She dropped it, and the knife fell with a heavythump to the ground. It should have clattered.
Blood. It was running from her stomach. Erin held her hand over the wound and tried to make it stop. But she was bleeding now, faster and faster. And the Goblin Chieftain was getting up.
“————!”
Erin wasn’t making any words. It was just a half-choked scream. She stumbled towards the fireplace, pain tearing up her insides with each step.
Smoke billowed from the pot. The contents boiled and spat at her. There was no time for gloves. She grabbed the pot by the handles.
The metal burned her. Erin screamed as her hands blistered and the skin burned away. The pain was unbearable. But she held the pot and turned.
The Chieftain was on his feet. He snarled at her through his broken nose and bloody face. He had the kitchen knife in his hands. He lunged at her.
Erin tossed the contents of the pot at the Goblin Chieftain. The boiling oil splashed the Goblin’s face and ran down his chest.
He screamed. The Chieftain dropped the kitchen knife and screamed so loud Erin went deaf. She dropped the cooking pot and stumbled away from him.
She held her shaking hands out. Already, her skin was burnt black and white in places. Large blisters were forming out of her ruined skin. But it was only half. Only half of the pain in the world.
The Goblin Chieftain clawed at his face and sank to the floor. He was screaming still, but the sound he made was so very small. She heard him choking. Screaming quietly in agony. She understood. There wasn’t enough sound in the world to convey it all, and the screaming would make the pain worse. But still, he had to scream, so he did it quietly.
Erin sat on the ground and stared at him. He lay on the floor, steam rising from a face running with oil and dripping skin. Erin was bleeding. The wound in her stomach bled without stopping. But her hands—
They weren’t the same. And the agony of both was too much to bear. So Erin forgot the pain. She stared at the Chieftain as he lay on the floor. He was smoking.
Parts of his face were sloughing off. The boiling oil had…melted him. He was still alive. But he was dying.
Erin heard him breathing. Short, sharp bursts and whimpered pain. He lay on the ground and did not move. The fight was over. She’d won.
Slowly, Erin began to cry.
——
The girl sat in the ruined kitchen with the Goblin. Both were silent. One was dying. The other, dead inside.
A haze of burned smoke filled the room. The smell of burnt flesh filled the air. Oil dripped off the counter, ran down across the floor and seeped into the cracks with the blood and flesh.
Eventually, the girl moved. Slowly, so slowly, she stood. Staggering, clutching at the hole in her stomach, she walked over to a large cloth bag filled with food. She picked up a kitchen knife lying on the ground.
With the knife, she began slicing the cloth bag apart. The pain as she tightened the bandages over her stomach nearly made her faint. Her fingers and palms bled, and the world grew black. But she gripped the bandages tightly and tied a knot.
Then she looked behind her.
A dark shape lay on the floor, still dying. Steam rose from what remained of a face. The odor of cooked meat hung heavy in the air, wrongly appetizing. A face of ruined green flesh charred black stared up at her. What remained of lips moved as a chest rose in short, labored breaths.
The girl still had the knife. She almost raised it, almost ran—and then she went to sit down next to the body. The oil was still hot enough to scald, but she barely felt it. She sat with the Goblin. He stared back, and she looked at what remained of his eyes. Hollow pits. Not enough of a face left to do anything but breathe.
The oil dripping down his face still looked like tears. Why was he crying?
The lips moved.Did he speak? Only she knew.
A dark shape lay on the floor. The girl sat with it and waited. In time, the breathing stopped.
Through the narrow window in the kitchen, the sun shone down amidst blue skies, a ray of light into the kitchen, filtering through smoke. It wasn’t even midday yet, and a cool breath blew down from the mountains, stirring across the inn and rattling some of the shutters.
But for that, the world was so silent.
The girl sat back against the counter and closed her eyes. Her blood dripped to the floor along with her tears.
[Innkeeper Level 9!]
[Skill – Bar Fighting obtained!]
[Skill – Unerring Throw obtained!]
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:30:53)
This chapter was tough to read.
Typos here.
Psych (2023-03-11T00:03:23)
It barely lasted seconds as a second foot broke the rotted, weakened section of the door. A second
Not a typo, but reading ‘second’ so many times in quick succession felt weird.
juppie (2023-03-11T17:43:59)
This chapter was tough to read.
Every time.
Thaecrasis (2023-04-12T11:58:42)
Damn… there are no words
Owl (2023-05-19T20:14:17)
“It was small. She turned and placed the last head with the bodies.
When she turned around, the Goblin was gone.
Erin put the last head in the grave and stared at it. Then she slowly began to fill in the rest of the grave.”
Not a typo, but she places the second head down twice
Konrahd_Verdammt (2023-05-22T22:35:53)
The fifth time reading this hits just as hard as the first.
marine (2023-10-15T06:14:41)
it’s rare to find a fantasy series that actually treats death as a serious matter
Scrifty (2023-11-07T04:48:00)
True, they usually gloss over it and immediately have the characters steel themselves.
Stenson (2024-06-19T03:47:15)
Even in those that try to address society issues, all they do is ignore the death because the character is so numb. It’s a good change of pace here.
Rayou (2024-09-03T22:26:30)
fantasy of ash and grimgar and this one are the only two i can think of that actually do it.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T21:58:10)
Some parts of the ‘fight’/brawl couldn’t have been more triggering and I have no more sympathies to give the chieftain over the loss of his people, but yeah this one was a tough read.
Night Owl (2025-02-07T11:20:21)
Loved it

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.15
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-15/

His name was Klbkch. It was what the members of other species called him, at least. His true name was longer and hard to express with lips. So he thought of himself as Klbkch or sometimes ‘Klb’. It was important to have an easy, affable nickname.
At the moment, Klbkch was off-duty. He had signed out of the roster and added Relc’s name to the log as well. His partner never signed out, or if he did, he did it improperly. Therefore, Klbkch had long ago made it a practice to do it for Relc. It was important to do things properly.
Propriety had gotten him this far. Propriety, an adherence to all the rules of Liscor, spoken and unspoken, and effort. A mountain of it.
Klbkch nodded to the desk sergeant on the way out. She barely looked up, but growled a goodbye.
“Thanks for dealing with those drunks, Klbkch. I owe you one.”
“Not at all, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark.”
And for that, she furnished him with a harried, grateful smile of a woman who had a family to get back to. These were salient details that Klbkch remembered, because they endeared him to people.
There was a time, not long ago, that he could remember when no one spoke to him when he became a [Guardsman]. When every eye was hostile or cautious.
Ten years ago seemed like both an age and a short time. Ten years…he wondered how much longer he’d do this. Another decade? A century?
If it were that long, he wondered if he would ever learn how to smile like they did. Not with their lips, but genuinely.
It didn’t matter. The cause was all. He should have gone straight back home, down, to the one street in Liscor where the ground opened up and no one but his kind went.Down, home to the Hive.
But instead, for once, Klbkch walked to the eastern gates. He passed by the [Guards], who straightened guiltily and then looked relieved that he was off-duty. He waved at the ones on the walls and then began to walk.
Klbkch walked through the dark grassland outside of the city, up rolling hills, head swiveling for monsters, but with little fear. He moved fast, in a continual stride, for he did not have all the time in the world. Once he was done here, he needed to conduct his work below, in his Hive. Six hours…and then he might sleep for four and get back to work. Depending on how long he took right now, he might sleep for two hours. Or one.
He was headed to the inn where a young Human female currently resided. Klbkch wondered why he was wasting his time doing this. It was not part of his duties as a guardsman. Relc had refused to go, citing some complaint he’d had with Erin, an argument.
Yet Klbkch went. He told himself he was visiting her to improve his relationship with her. It was important to maintain good relationships with other species. But she was hardly important; Humans were not well-liked in Liscor, and she had no capital, social or economic. So why?
Maybe because she had never mentioned The Black Tide. She had never met an Antinium and when she smiled, there was noedge behind it. She was guileless, possibly naive. He was only going to check in on her and have a drink.
Klbkch knew something was wrong when he saw the smoke in the distance. It wasn’t visible from Liscor’s walls, but he saw it once he got within a few miles of the inn, a thin line of smoke coming out one window. Not from the chimney. And the door of the inn wasn’t closed either, but ajar.
Even in his ruined form, his eyes had been made to spot details at a distance, and Klbkch noted how the door hung inpieces.
Instantly, Klbkch drew the two swords at his waist. He had two more hands free, but he left them unarmed for now.
Swords at the ready, Klbkch charged up the slight incline towards the inn. He moved extremely quickly—his long legs combined with his levels in the [Guardsman] class that gave him [Enhanced Movement], which turned the several miles into a blur behind him.
The inn was leaking black smoke out of the back windows. Klbkch knew they were connected to the kitchen. The door smashed in, and as Klbkch approached, he saw a crowd of monsters clustering around the windows.
Goblins.
The instant they saw him running at them, they turned and fled, running for the base of the mountains. Klbkch debated cutting them down for a second—then he turned to the interior. If she was anywhere—
Klbkch stopped outside of the inn and flattened himself against one wall next to the entrance. He drew his two daggers with his lower set of hands and braced himself, listening. He did not underestimate or overestimate his chances.
As a [Guardsman], he was the fourth in order of levels in the entire city of Liscor. His other talents put him in the top three fighters in the entire Watch day by day. Once, it wouldn’t have been a competition. He was capable of handling most Goblin varieties, but if he was outnumbered, he would retreat.
His goal was to assess the whereabouts and well-being of Erin Solstice and, if possible, escape with her. If not, his job was to witness her fate and the forces currently occupying the inn.
For some reason, Erin Solstice mattered to Klbkch more than assessing the threat at the moment. He dismissed that thought instantly and questioned his judgment. His survival outweighed a single Human’s. He should fall back and summon a Watch patrol.
But. She could be inside, wounded or dying at the hands of the Goblins at this moment. Klbkch was well-aware of their tendency to rape and assault females of any humanoid race. He heard nothing.
His instincts told him to wait, that it was too late. Klbkch ignored them. His mind was telling him to act. He charged through the door, ready for anything.
The common room of the inn was a mess of broken tables and chairs. Klbkch swept the room. Empty. The door to the kitchen was broken in. He raced into the kitchen. And stopped.
Two figures lay on the ground. One was a Goblin. Not just any Goblin; a Chieftain. A Hobgoblin. A true danger and threat. The other was a Human girl. Both were lying still.
The air smelled of smoke and oil. Burnt flesh.
Klbkch assessed the situation. The Goblin Chieftain was a great threat. He could be killed if necessary, but—he was already dead. Dead. A threat capable of wiping out low-level parties of adventurers by himself had been killed by…a girl?
How? But that didn’t matter. He looked at Erin Solstice. Then he heard the rasping sound.
The young woman lay against a kitchen counter. She held a bandage to her stomach with her arm. Her hands were blistered and blackened. Tears had painted clear lines through the soot on her face. Red-black blood had dried around the bandage on her stomach. Her eyes barely fluttered as he knelt beside her.
She was barely breathing.
For once in his long life, Klbkch of the Free Antinium had no idea what to say.
“Ah. Miss Solstice?”
——
The pain had left after a while. Erin floated in a dark, warm sea by herself. She was falling asleep. Or maybe she was asleep and just dreaming.
Erin slowly sank into slumber as the light of the world faded away. It was a wonderful feeling as she gave up her burdens and closed her eyes. Sleep. It had been so long since she’d slept properly.
But there was something bothering her. Something…was making a sound? Yes, a sound. Erin squeezed her eyes shut, but now she was being shaken. She didn’t want to wake up. But maybe if she did, she could go back to sleep. She listened.
“Miss Solstice? Miss Solstice, you must drink.”
She was waking up. And with the waking came pain. Erin groaned, or tried to. Her throat was terribly dry. She hurt. She hurt so much that she couldn’t bear the pain. She didn’t know what to do. She wanted to go back to sleep, but the voice was insistent.
“Drink.”
Something was at her lips. Cool glass and a wet feeling. Erin felt cool liquid pressing forwards and licked instinctively.
At once, something wonderful began happening. Just as her tongue tasted bitter foulness and she gagged, the pain went away. For a second.
Then it was back. Desperately, Erin opened her mouth and tasted the disgusting, wonderful drink again. It was bitter and had some terrible taste like a mix of the worst medications combined with what she thought bugs might taste like. Yet with each gulp, the pain lessened, and the burning agony in her stomach fled, piece by piece. The terriblenumbness in her hands vanished, replaced by pain, tingling, and then a sense of incredible normality.
Erin opened her eyes and sat up. Energy flooded back into her body, and the darkness of death receded. She looked up and saw a giant insectoid face staring down at her.
“Guh.”
Erin choked on the last mouthful of the healing potion. Klbkch held her steady as she gulped it down and swallowed. His mandibles clacked as he spoke, and a tiny ‘mouth,’ more like an opening between the mandibles, opened and closed, producing the staccato voice. Staccato, but intent, worried.
“Miss Solstice. Are you well?”
“I—I’m alive.”
Erin stammered. She looked at Klbkch. He was holding the empty potion bottle in his hand.He had saved her. Brought her back from death. She wanted to thank him. She didn’t have the words, but she wanted to thank him for saving her. She opened her mouth and then saw the body lying on the floor.
The Goblin Chieftain. Her eyes fell on his ruined face, on his motionless body. Erin paused and ignored Klbkch’s repeated questions. For a while, she just stared at the body until Klbkch dragged it out of the kitchen. When he returned and she looked back into his face, she’d completely forgotten what she wanted to say.
——
“You are not from here, are you, Miss Solstice?”
That was the first thing Klbkch said to her after he’d made sure she was well.
Erin lay against the kitchen cupboards, her shirt lifted up as she inspected her stomach. It was perfectly healed, although the bandage was still there. She would have felt uneasy about undressing in front of Klbkch but—she wasn’t. It was probably because he was an insect.
She looked up in surprise. Klbkch was staring at her. She didn’t know what to say. He, however, did.
“I do not mean this country or even this continent. You are not fromhere, are you?”
Klbkch squatted next to her. His back-shell actually rested on the ground, making it an easy position for him. He was incapable of lying on his back, and she wondered how he slept. Erin shook her head slowly.
“No. I’m not.”
“I thought as much.”
Erin smiled bloodlessly. She felt so tired, but sleep was as impossible as anything else, so she talked. She gazed at the insect-man’s face, and he was the most reassuring, normal thing this day. She tried to shrug and gave up halfway.
“Was it obvious?”
“Say rather that it has become obvious. It is an unbelievable statement, but it is the only one I can come to.”
Erin hesitated and then nodded. Klbkch nodded in agreement.
“How’d you figure it out?”
He raised a hand and began to tick off points on his fingers.
“Many clues lead me to this conclusion. Your curiosity about levels and classes, your mysterious arrival, and this ‘Michigan,’ which is no nation recorded in any book or map. But most of all, it was this last moment. No Human would weep for a Goblin.”
Erin brushed at her face. Her tears were long dried but—
“Really? No one? What about Drakes?”
“No Human. No Drake or Gnoll, Selphid, Dullahan, Beastkin, or any creature from this world would.”
“What about your people?”
Klbkch didn’t blink. He couldn’t. But he did twitch. His antennae, above his head, moved erratically then settled down.
“The Antinium? We do not weep.”
“Oh. I see.”
Erin felt Klbkch’s hands moving at her side. He was peeling away the sticky bandage.
“Ow. What was—”
“Worry not. The healing potion worked. The bandage has stuck to your skin.”
“Oh—ow! Good to know.”
“You will be weak for at least a day afterwards. However, you will recover in full. You are lucky; there was no infection that the healing potion could have exacerbated.”
Erin yelped as a bit of skin came off with the rest of the bandage.
“Good. Thank you. So. What now? Did you—what did you do with the body?”
“I buried it outside. Far from the inn, in pieces, to prevent chance reanimation. Worry not.”
“…Thank you. Um. Thank you.”
Klbkch nodded. He quickly and deftly folded the dirty bandage and added it to the fire he’d lit. It smelled terribly, but that was just one burned odor among many in the kitchen at the moment.
Then the ant man went to check on the small pot he’d set over the stove. It was filled with boiling water, not oil. After a minute, he dipped another piece of cloth into the pot and brought it over to Erin. She accepted it wordlessly and used it to sponge off dried dirt, blood, and other stains from her skin.
“I had made the observation that you were not from this world, Miss Solstice.”
“Yeah. I changed the subject. Humans do that when they don’t want to talk about something.”
She scrubbed violently at her stomach. The towel was quite hot, but the heat was welcome. She felt cold. Klbkch bowed his head as he watched her.
“Then you have a commonality with many non-Antinium species. My apologies. I should not be asking such questions now. You are still in shock.”
Erin looked up.
“I’m not in shock.”
“You are still suffering from this encounter. Your mental state is unbalanced.”
“I’m not in shock. I’m really not. I’m just—tired.”
Klbkch bowed his head again.
“As you say.”
“I’m okay. Really. I just—I’m from somewhere else. Another world. This place is different. I just—I just don’t want to talk about it right now. It’s been a bad day.”
“Of course. Forgive my rudeness. But if I may, I would like to suggest a course of action.”
“Um. Okay?”
“I have disposed of the Goblin Chieftain’s body. However, there are many Goblins still hiding nearby. If you feel safe here, I will dispose of as many as I can. If not, I will escort you to the city and then return with reinforcements to—”
“No.”
Erin cut Klbkch off. She sensed the Antinium’s surprise.
“No? If you feel unable to travel, I can—”
“No. No killing Goblins.”
He paused. She could sense him looking at her even though his multifaceted eyes had no pupils. Klbkch seemed baffled, and his mandibles opened and closed several times, like someone opening and closing their mouth.
“May I ask why not?”
“It’s wrong.”
“Many would argue otherwise, Miss Solstice. Goblins are considered monsters and bandits for the purposes of determining crime under Liscorian law. They are killers who prey on the weak. You have nearly died at the hands of one.”
Erin nodded.
“They’re vicious, evil little monsters. And they’d probably eat me if they could.”
“Undoubtedly.”
“And they’re murderers.”
“This is true. Over a quarter of the deaths of travellers on the roads around Liscor are due to Goblin attacks. They are murderers.”
“Yeah.”
Erin mumbled. She stared at her hands. Her clean, whole hands.
“They’re murderers. And so am I. Don’t kill them.”
Silence followed her last remark. Erin stared at her hands. At last, Klbkch’s staccato voice sounded next to her ear.
“I do not understand your reasoning. But I will accede to your request. Know that I will defend myself with lethal force if attacked, however.”
“That’s fine. They’re gone, anyways. They ran off when they heard him screaming.”
“Very well then.”
Klbkch fell silent. Erin stared at the spot where the body had lain. She felt lightheaded. At some point, she felt she should have clung to Klbkch and started crying. Or was that too stereotypical? Was it a normal reaction? But instead, she just felt a bit—empty.
“One more thing.”
“Is there something you wish to ask of me, Miss Solstice?”
Erin nodded vaguely. She pointed at her chest. It was still bare. Oops. She pulled her shirt down. Good thing her bra was still on.
“After I killed the Goblin—I gained a new skill. Two, actually. [Bar Fighting] and [Unerring Throw].”
“They are worthy skills. Unusual for the [Innkeeper] class, but not unheard of.”
“Really? Why’d I get them? And aren’t skills like…set?”
“Another sign you do not belong to this world, Miss Solstice.”
Erin looked up with a frown. Klbkch waved one hand.
“I mean no offense. It is simply that all beings know how classes and skills work.”
“Well then, explain it to me.”
Klbkch was silent for a few seconds.
“To put it simply, classes are general ways of life that individuals take. In life, one might choose to become a [Butcher], or perhaps a [Musician]. It is simply a matter of fulfilling the requirements. Often, they are known, but there are exceptions. One cannot simply take [Ruler]-type classes for instance.”
“Right, you’ve got to be born into it.”
“That is indeed one of the ways to learn such a class. But in any case, classes increase one’s proficiency at their role with each new level. And with that increase in ability, Skills may be learnt. But there is no one set of Skills for a class.”
“Really?”
“Indeed not. Two individuals taking the [Soldier] class, for instance, may learn different Skills at the same level. It is a matter of need and inclination which allows individuals to learn skills. For instance, while Relc is a higher-level warrior than I, he is not of a higher level in the actual [Guardsman] class and thus does not possess the [Detect Guilt] skill.”
“Okay.”
Klbkch looked at Erin. She shrugged.
“Do you understand?”
“Not really. Sort of. I guess? But why are there levels in the first place?”
“It is the way of the world. All races that think are given the ability to level and take classes.”
“By who?”
Erin sighed and slapped her face lightly.
“Or whom. Who did it? And why?”
“It is not known. But our oldest texts tell us of this truth.”
Klbkch recited in his inflectionless voice:
“All those that Think—Feel. From Feeling do we Act. It is in Action that we Level. All those who Think have a Class. And it is in that Class which we find destiny.”
Erin snorted. Then she realized he was being serious.
“Did someone teach you that?”
Klbkch nodded gravely.
“It is part of the lessons any child learns. The exact wording comes from a book:The Book of Levels, which was originally written nearly twenty thousand years ago. Copies of this text are among the few mainstream works that have been faithfully reproduced into this age. I have studied it extensively upon coming to this continent to understand the mentality of the peoples here, as well as levels and classes in general.”
“Butwhy is that how things work?”
Erin was getting frustrated. Klbkch’s calm, matter-of-fact tone wasn’t helping matters either. This time, his pause took longer, and she thought he sounded vaguely exasperated.
“It is simply how we live our life. This is a universal truth throughout the world. Is yours not the same?”
Erin scowled at him.
“No, it’s not. We don’t have levels, and we don’t learn Skills like we’re in a video game. We don’t have classes except for ones in school, and we don’t need levels to learn things.”
“Learning skills is not merely a matter of levels. Classes and leveling are simply the basis of our lives so we may grow faster from what we do. It is a fact of life.”
“That’s stupid.”
He looked at her in surprise.
“I beg your pardon?”
“Your leveling is stupid. Your skills are stupid. I hate your world’s classes, I hate your city, and I hateyou.”
She shouted those last words at Klbkch and then buried her face in her hands. After a while, she felt him place a comforting hand on her shoulder. It was cold, smooth exoskeleton. But it was still comforting.
“…I didn’t mean that.”
“I took no offense, Miss Solstice. I realize you have gone through a traumatic event. The fault lies with me for not being more receptive to your distress. I should have provided more comfort and companionship. In that, my partner Relc is occasionally more effective than I.”
“You’re fine.”
Erin mumbled that through her tears. She’d begun crying. Not bad crying or loud crying, but her eyes were suddenly filled with tears.
“I’m just having a bad—I mean, it’s been—I hate this world. But I didn’t mean that last bit about you. You’re okay. Everyone else can go to hell.”
“I see. It is a long way to Rhir. Here. Please accept this.”
Klbkch handed Erin another piece of cloth. She blew her nose and sniffed loudly.
“I’d like to be alone now.”
Klbkch hesitated.
“I will remain here with your permission. It would be unwise to—”
She cut him off.
“I’ll be fine.”
“Respectfully, I must disagree. Though the Goblin Chieftain is dead, his tribe may seek vengeance.”
“They won’t.”
“May I ask how you know?”
“I just know. Please. I’d really like to be left alone.”
Again, he hesitated, but at last, Klbkch stood up. He walked over to the door of the kitchen. There he turned.
“One last question, Miss Solstice, if I may? What caused the Goblin Chieftain to attack you in the first place? It is rare that the tribal leader takes any aggressive action if unprovoked.”
Erin closed her eyes. She felt so tired. And the events of…was it this morning? They felt so long ago.
“Relc. He killed two Goblins and beheaded them.”
Klbkch paused. Out of the corner of her eye, Erin saw him close one of his four hands. Then he bowed deeply.
“Allow me to apologize on both our behalves. Words cannot express my shame.”
She nodded shortly.
“It’s okay.”
The lie said, she waited for Klbkch to leave. When he didn’t leave after a few minutes, she looked directly at him.
“I’m going to sleep.”
He nodded.
“Well then. Take care, Miss Solstice.”
The Antinium didn’t close the door since the door was broken. But he did prop it against the hole in the wall with two chairs. That done, the ant man disappeared into the grasslands, quickly becoming a silhouette against the orange sky.
Erin put her head against the wall. Her eyes were burning, and her body felt slow and fuzzy after the healing potion. At last, he was gone. It wasn’t that she didn’t want his company. In fact, she wanted to hold him or maybe him to hold her. But she wanted to sleep now. To forget.
But she couldn’t sleep.
She wanted to sleep badly. Her mind was crying out for her to close her eyes. But when she did, she saw things. So she kept them open.
She smelled the burned oil and burning flesh still. Klbkch had opened a window, and an evening breeze was blowing through the kitchen. But she still smelled death. She still saw it in the Goblin Chieftain’s eyes. He was looking right at her—
Thump.
Erin smacked her head against the wall behind her. It hurt. She did it again.
Thump. Thump.
The image of the dead Goblin’s eyes disappeared for a second. But the instant she thought about them, they were back, staring into her soul.
Thump.
Erin bumped her head again. The pain made the vision fade briefly. It also made her head swim. Still, if she had to choose between that and the Goblin’s—
Thump. Thump. Thump.
She wanted to sleep, but couldn’t. And the night was coming. With it came uncertainty, fear, but worst of all was that one thing she couldn’t escape.
Memory.
Thump.
——
Klbkch walked through Liscor’s eastern gates and nodded at the Drake on duty. He received no reply from the weary Drake, but made no comment. Politeness was important. Fostering strong ties and goodwill towards the Antinium within the city was important.
What was also important was turning in a bounty. Klbkch had a large cloth bag he’d fashioned out of what remained of Erin Solstice’s shopping bag, and it was weighing down his left side by quite a bit. But the bag was necessary, and besides, it kept the smell and sight from disturbing the other civilians he passed.
Yes, the bounty. He would fill it out tonight at the Adventurer’s Guild. But before that, he had another mission that took higher precedence.
Klbkch walked through the streets until he came to a bar he knew was frequented by many Drake customers. It was a loud, raucous joint filled with many reptilian bodies, but they made room for him. Not out of respect for his occupation—he was off-duty—but out of a desire not to touch him.
The lone Antinium walked through the crowd of Drakes until he heard his name being loudly called and thesmash of a tankard being hurled his way.
“Oi, Klb! You won’t believe what that stupid Human did this time.”
Klbkch approached Relc from across the bar. The Drake waved him over to a seat and turned unsteadily. He was with a gaggle or, as the proper term was,cluster of Drakes. Some were male; the majority were female. Or not. Gender was still difficult for Klbkch to ascertain at the best of times.
“Good thing you’re here. Let me tell you, that Erin girl? Stupidest Human I’ve ever met. Do you know what she did this morning?”
Relc didn’t wait for a response, but launched into his story. By the looks on the others’ faces, this was not his first retelling. Klbkch ignored Relc and ignored the seat the Drake was trying to shove him into. He was clearly inebriated.
Klbkch placed one of his hands on Relc’s shoulders to steady him. Proper posture was critical. Relc grinned at him.
“Hey, what’s gotten into you, Klb? Decided to take me up on a night out for once? Pull up a seat.”
He turned his head as Klbkch put the other hand on Relc’s other shoulder, and the Drake gave him a quizzical glance. Then Klbkch hit Relc with his other two hands as hard as he could.
The Drake saw the punches coming, but he was too drunk to dodge properly, and Klbkch’s hands held him in place. He smacked into the floor hard as both punches caught him in the jaw and stomach at the same time.
For a moment, all was stunned silence. Then Klbkch heard a loud hiss that turned into a screeching bellow of rage.
Relc surged to his feet with a roar and caught Klbkch’s foot while coming up. The blow smashed him in the jaw again and this time stunned him for a few seconds. Klbkch nodded to himself. Proper posture was critical for a good strike. Relc was a fine warrior, but he was drunk, and this was a surprise attack.
Relc lay at Klbkch’s feet. He got back up, received two more punches again, and decided to lie down. Klbkch nodded to himself and walked away from his partner.
The atmosphere in the room had turned hostile. Klbkch glanced around but decided not to draw his daggers. The other male Drakes were glowering and clenching their clawed hands, but experience told him that they would not attack unless he made further provocations.
Klbkch estimated the public perception towards Antinium within the city had lowered a degree from his actions, regardless of the reasons. Antipathy within the City Guard might also be substantial, at least in the short term.
It was a costly consequence, but it struck Klbkch as fitting. He nodded to the silent bar of onlookers.
“Good night to you. Please accept my apologies for the inconvenience. I shall take my leave.”
Klbkch turned and walked out of the bar. He heard the hubbub start as soon as he’d left, mixed in with Relc’s indignant and distinctive voice. Oh yes. There would be consequences tomorrow.
For some reason, that didn’t bother Klbkch. Instead, he wondered what Humans were like. Were they anything like Drakes? He had only seen them on the other side of a battlefield or rare visitors to Liscor. They had not been like Erin.
But the night was deepening, and he still had a bounty to turn in. The proper forms needed to be filled out, and an eyewitness account delivered. Things had to be done properly or not at all.
Klbkch walked into the night. There was a bounty to fill out and research on Humans to be done. But most importantly, his Queen must know of a Human named Erin Solstice. She was important. She was…unique.
——
The body was gone. But Erin still saw his face. She still smelled burning flesh, still felt her hands burn. She still heard him breathing.
She didn’t sleep. And as the night fell into day, she stared up at the dark ceiling.
Listening to the breathing.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:33:27)
Leave your trauma below. I mean typos. Whatever.
;-;
Gisela (2023-03-06T22:11:10)
I haven’t been able to comment for a few chapters as the system would not let me.
First in pt00 you wrote that Erin filled up mugs of water and then they were not referenced again. Maybe she could drink them and think about how much more liquids she needs to drink given that she has no AC or electricity?
Also, before she learns that Goblins are called that she could ponder that she will refer to them as such until she learns what they are.
I’m glad the information on Klbkch was cleared up as in the orrigional V1 his history was not the same as llater in the series.
I think he should tell Relc why he is beating h8im up. Do those 2 never appologize to one another? LOL Seriously, its liike they really fight and never really talk about it.. Course, most males are like that …
Really enjoying going through the updated volume
DanCarbonell00 (2023-03-08T15:24:51)
Giiiiirl, Pirate just spent the last however many months / years re-editing all this stuff and you want em to re-edit it again with fan suggestions? C’mon now. I’m sure the last thing Pirate wants to do is re-edit volume one ever again lmao.
Plus, I think we’re like 5 years too late for suggestion boxes getting in on any of the story points for the foreseeable future
Kechu (2023-03-08T22:59:05)
“I do not mean this country or even this continent. You are not from here, are you?”
I think “country” should be changed to city or region.
juppie (2023-03-11T18:03:17)
It is simply a matter of fulfilling the requirements. Often, they are known, but there are exceptions. One cannot simply take [Ruler]-type classes for instance.”
“Right, you’ve got to be born into it.”
“That is indeed one of the ways to learn such a class.
[Ruler]–>[Royal]
Grault (2023-03-14T21:59:59)
You are lucky; there was no infection that the healing potion could have exacerbated.
Somebody needs to redesign their healing potions.
Grault (2023-03-14T22:06:02)
“Right, you’ve got to be born into it.”
“That is indeed one of the ways to learn such a class.
Klb isn’t only talking about royals.
marine (2023-10-15T17:20:50)
Or create a 2-part potion, one for disinfecting and the second for healing
Scrifty (2023-11-07T05:20:42)
She traumatized for real, for real. Relc better feel some shame about the shit he dragged to Erin’s doorstep (literally and figuratively).
Toni (2023-11-24T01:24:20)
Saw it coming from the moment Erin told Klb what Relc had done, but damn was it still satisfying. Really hoping there is some redemption for Relc in the future. Though, him becoming somewhat antagonistic would also be an interesting development
Xavier Campbell (2024-12-02T21:49:48)
Klbkch might be the goat idk
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T22:29:00)
You Go Klbkch!!
Lurch (2025-01-11T12:48:37)
Coming back to what I consider the GOAT of online fiction  after a long, LONG time. Last time I was keeping up reading this we were still finding out where the party had been scattered to (hopefully that is vague enough to not be a spoiler).
And all that time ago, when I first found this story, it was this bit that made me truly hooked. You’re transported to a magical world that works like D&D! WOW! That’s amazing!
And it is all so terribly,viscerally,real… 
Erin’s reaction isn’t that of some video game protagonist, it’s that of an actual person who’s found themselves in this situation. It brings this whole world to life, by simply acknowledging that yeah, that IS what it would be like to go from our world to that one, with wonder and horror both in abundance.
First time around this story made me outright laugh, brought me to tears, and in places creeped me the FUCK out. I look forward to rediscovering all those moments again.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.16
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-16/

Erin sat in a chair and stared outside. It was a lovely day. A warm breeze floated through the window, warming all it touched.
Except for her. She felt cold. Cold and empty.
Shadows passed before her. They had names. Klbkch, Relc, even Pisces. But they weren’t important. The dead were far worse.
Erin held a Goblin’s head in her hands. She stared into its blank eyes and felt her hands burning. She sat next to a dying Goblin and listened to him breathing.
The sun was bright. At some point, the night had turned to day. But Erin still felt as if it were night. In the inn, the shadows were long and kept her in darkness. It was only fitting.
The world felt hollow. Everything echoed, and the surroundings blurred gently around Erin as she sat. She wasn’t doing anything in particular. She was just existing. Existing and not fitting in.
A little ghost in a little inn in a little world. That’s what she felt like.
It was cold. Not physically; at some point, someone had put a blanket on her and left some tea that had grown chilly, untouched. Had that been Pisces? Surely not.
Erin looked up. Relc was in the inn. Was it the first time she’d seen him today? Probably. He was yelling about Goblins and apologizing. Klbkch was there. Silent. His brown carapace blended in with the chairs. Maybe he’d been here all day. Erin couldn’t remember.
“—kill all of the little bastards!”
Relc was shouting. He grabbed his spear. Erin’s hand moved.
“Whoa!”
Relc’s head jerked back as a kitchen knife flashed past his face. The bladethudded into a wall and lodged in the wood.
Klbkch and Relc stared at Erin. She stared at her hand silently. Oh. Right. A skill. [Unerring Throw]. Had she talked to Klbkch about it yesterday? Or was she going to talk to him in the future about it?
She looked up at Relc.
“Leave them alone.”
Then Erin went back to staring at her hands. After a while, Relc left. Klbkch left too, or maybe Erin just stopped seeing him.
“This is my inn. I make the rules here. And if you don’t like my rules, get out.”
Did she say that to Relc or the empty inn? Maybe she screamed it. Erin couldn’t remember. Time wasn’t the same anymore. She just stared at her hands and felt her flesh burning. She saw the dead Goblin lying on the floor, screaming quietly.
It was all she saw.
Pisces came later. He ran in with sparks shooting from his fingertips. He was like Relc. But he cared. He wanted to kill Goblins too, or maybe just scare them away. Place a curse on them. It didn’t matter.
Erin stared at him until he flinched and looked away. She gave him one of the dried sausages. She told him if he killed a Goblin, then she’d kill him.
He took the sausage and turned white when she told him she’d kill him. Then he put the blanket over her and left.
Erin sat in the inn and felt the walls closing in. She couldn’t breathe in there. So she went outside.
The sun was too beautiful, and the sky was too bright. Erin went back inside and felt the darkness crawling up her spine. The shadows were moving. The wind sounded like whispers.
She heard breathing. It was hers.
It was dark. At some point, the sun went down. That was the worst time. Erin saw dead things lying in the shadows. The bodies of Goblins lay underneath tables; their heads sat in the moonlight filtering in from the windows.
Erin shut her eyes. But they followed her inside her head. They dug around her mind and pulled out memories. Then they tore apart her heart. Piece by piece, until morning came.
——
Klbkch came the next day. Relc was missing. He sat with her a while and asked her more questions. Was she well? Did she want anything? Was she hungry?
Erin answered until it was too much work. Then she just sat and waited for him to leave. Eventually, he did.
The sunlight grew brighter until the shadows retreated. Erin sat in her chair and rocked back and forth occasionally. She got up when she heard thethumping.
Someone was at the door. Klbkch had made sure it was fixed, by nailing boards into place until it was secure. Erin hesitated a moment before she opened it.
A giant rock stood in front of her inn. A long claw reached for her. The rock crabclicked and swiped at her, snapping at her waist.
Erin opened her mouth andscreamed. The rock crab tried to grab her head with one claw. She smashed it with a chair and kept screaming. The rock crab jerked back its claw and retreated. She howled at it. She screamed and screamed until her breath was gone. Then she screamed some more.
The crab retreated in agony, trying to shield its ear holes with its claws. It scuttled away as fast as it could. Miles away, the pterodactyl birds took flight in panic.
Erin screamed and screamed until her voice was gone. She wiped the tears off her face and walked back into the inn and slept in her chair.
——
She felt hungry when she woke. Erin ignored the feeling and kept sitting where she was. But the pain started biting at her insides. She ignored it.
It went away. But a few hours later, it came back and tore at her. Erin wondered when she’d last eaten. Two days ago?
Her stomach gurgled and begged. Erin felt the starving pain gnawing at her mind. Eventually, it became too hard to ignore. So Erin decided to eat.
It was too much work to cook. And she couldn’t eat meat. So Erin got up.
The effort of standing up left her light-headed and dizzy. Erin swayed and fell onto the table. She lay there and stared at the ground. After about ten minutes, she pushed herself up and walked out the door.
The sun was shining. Erin shaded her eyes. It was noon. Of tomorrow. That was probably why she felt hungry.
She began walking. It was hard. Her legs didn’t want to keep her upright. Twice, Erin tripped and fell over. But she got up and walked on. Walking was hard, but it wasn’t nearly as hard as other things.
——
The orchard was just as she’d left it. The unnaturally straight, stiff trees still bore the bright blue fruits. Erin kicked one tree and caught the fruit as it fell towards her face.
For a while, she sat on the ground and stared at the fruit. The trees provided her with shade; the wind blew her hair back into her face. Eventually, Erin bit into the fruit and ate.
It was sweet and delicious. The juice was cool and refreshing. Erin tasted ash and dust. Mechanically, she finished the fruit and ate five more. Then she threw up.
Once she was done, Erin ate another fruit. It helped with the taste. Then she stared at the mess of fruit and the stained seed core in her hands.
She cracked open the seed core and stared at the pulpy mess inside. Poison. It was probably a really painful way to die. The smell was terrible. It would probably taste terrible.
Poison was a terrible way to die. Almost as bad as melting your face off.
Thump. Thump.
Erin smacked her head against the tree. It was nice and hard. The blue fruits showered down around her.
Thump. Thump. Thump.
She stopped when she saw the Goblins. They were standing at the edge of the orchard, four of them. They fled the instant her eyes fell on them.
One of the Goblins dropped something in its panic. Erin walked over and picked up the small basket made of twigs. It wasn’t very good.
She turned and looked at the orchard. Fruit trees. Of course. They were probably hungry too. She couldn’t see them eating the rock crabs, and the dino birds would probably eat them if they tried to steal their eggs. Aside from the occasional traveller, what else could Goblins eat?
Erin left the orchard. She walked back to the inn slowly, feeling her body gradually collapsing on itself. She probably needed to eat more. But it was too much work.
She sensed them following her. When she looked around, they fled. But they were slow, and she caught glimpses of them. Ragged clothes. Thin bodies. They looked like starving children, refugees from a war. Not like monsters. Except for the teeth and red eyes.
That gave Erin an idea. She stared at her hands for a moment and then picked up the pace. Suddenly, she was walking faster. When she got to the inn, she looked for the shopping bag and found Klbkch had stored all the ingredients away on the counter. It was very hard to start the fire. But when she’d started, it was easier than stopping.
Erin smelled smoke and burning. But only burning wood and not so much smoke. Mainly, she just heard breathing. And her stomach rumbling.
——
Evening fell upon the plains, upon the lone inn on the small hilltop, and upon the four Goblins skulking in the tall grass. They watched the inn. They watched the smoke rising from the chimney. They watched and heard their stomachs rumbling.
All of them had weapons. Not good ones; rusty blades and crude clubs. But they were dangerous.
Even so, they feared the inn. They feared the one that lived inside it. A trickster. A deceiver. A destroyer. She looked weak, but she was death. A burning death. Burning, melting death. A terrible way to go, even by their low standards.
They knew that. But still, they smelled something wonderful coming from the inn. Food. And they were so very hungry.
The inn had closed shutters, but they could still smell something wafting from the inside. It didn’t smell like rotted meat or the foulness inside the blue death fruits. It didn’t even smell like the dead, half-rotted animals they sometimes found on a lucky day. It smelledgood.
They salivated. But they feared the inn. And they had to eat tonight or starve. So, reluctantly, they tore themselves away. They had hoped the Human female would drop some food or fall down dead. Since she did neither, they had to find other food.
Still, they hesitated. They lingered outside the door and wished they had the numbers or strength to steal the food. But the monster inside was death. She had killed the Chieftain, and so she could not be fought. It was death.
Still, they hungered.
The littlest Goblin had no more thoughts than that. Three Goblins were dead, now. The Chieftain, two more…their tribe might end here, before the snow came. That knowledge did not hurt her.
It just was. Her curiosity about the Human was gone. She saw everything clearly now. The Human female was death, a different kind than the Drake or the bug-person, but death nonetheless. She was hungry and empty and…and she wondered if the Human had any knives. She needed a sharp knife. Or she would die like the Chieftain.
The littlest Goblin’s gaze was empty, but like the other four Goblins, she wavered, debating, silently, whether or not she could steal a morsel from the inn. She was so hungry without the Chieftain to make sure everyone had a tiny bit of something or to kill one of the deer or something else like a few spiders.
How long did they stand outside the front door, drooling? Too long. The door slammed open.
The Goblins cried out in fear and turned to run. But the Deceiver didn’t chase them. She stood in the doorway of the inn, hands on her hips. She raised one eyebrow.
“Well? Come on in.”
The Deceiver turned and walked back inside. The Goblins exchanged a glance and stared at the open door. A good smell came from inside. They hesitated.
The littlest Goblin knew this might be her death. It would be just like the Human to kill them like the Chieftain. But the smell was so delicious. She clutched at her stomach, which was so beyond empty it now began to feel full. If she died, she wanted a bite of whatever that smell was. One bite, just one in her entire life. Her feet carried her forwards as the others hissed at her.
So, so delicious.
——
Erin turned as the first Goblin finally crept into the inn. He froze in place, but she pointed to a table.
“There. Sit.”
He…hesitated, and then scampered over to the chair. Erin thought it was a he. It was almost impossible to tell.
The Goblin awkwardly perched on the oversized chairs as Erin placed a plate on the table. Or was it she? They flinched with her every move. When she pulled out the forks, the tiny Goblin nearly bolted. But they sat up and stared as she brought the pot into the room.
The metal was still burning hot. But Erin used her t-shirt to protect her hands and carried the pot to the table. She picked up a pair of tongs and began dropping buttered pasta mixed with sausage and onions onto each plate.
The Goblin salivated. They stared at the golden pasta and up at Erin with wide-eyed wonder. They reached for the pasta with dirty fingers and hesitated. The tiny little Goblin stared up at Erin.
She stared back. Her eyes travelled to the Goblin’s fingers, which were scooting beneath the plate.
“Steal my stuff and I’ll hit you with a chair. Sit. Eat.”
The Goblin snatched their fingers back instantly. They stared at the pasta and then up at Erin. She wondered why the Goblin wasn’t eating. Oh. Of course.
“The first meal is on the house.”
The Goblin looked up at the ceiling. Erin sighed, but her lips twitched.
“That means it’s free.”
Again, the Goblin stared at her. This time in wide-eyed wonder.
“Eat.”
A hand reached for the pasta.
“Not like that.”
The Goblin snatched his hand back and nearly tumbled out of the chair. Erin sighed again. This time, she was smiling a bit.
“Eat with a fork. See this? Fork.”
She pointed to a fork. The Goblin stared at it. Slowly, the tiny figure picked it up. The Goblin inspected it, turning it around and understood how to use it, but admired the tiny tines. Then, gingerly, he speared one buttered noodle and slowly transferred it to his mouth. It hung over the open mouth full of yellowed teeth as he stared at her. Asking for permission.
Erin nodded. The noodle fell. The Goblin gulped and went very still. Deathly still.
Then he smiled. It was a terrible smile, full of sharp crooked teeth and hesitation. But it was a smile.
Erin smiled back. She laughed for the first time in ages. It was a laugh that came straight out of her feet and through her heart. It exploded out of her chest. It was a good laugh, and it made the world right again.
The Goblin looked at the laughing Human. The little Goblin put down his fork and ran out the door, screaming. It only made her laugh harder.
——
Erin put away the last plate and watched the last Goblin groan as it lay slumped on the table. Four Goblins. Six plates. She was surprised they’d managed to eat that much.
They were very small creatures. Still, they ate like starving wolves, which they were. At least, in that they had been starving.
But they lay now in a blissful food coma, on the border between pain and oblivion with their bloated stomachs. But as she approached, they sat up and stared at her.
Erin pulled up a chair and sat. The Goblins drew back, but they didn’t run screaming this time. They stared at her. She stared back.
——
After a long time, it was night. The smallest of the Goblins glanced towards the door, and they all stood up as one. Erin made no move to stop them.
Awkwardly, they wandered towards the door, still staring at her. Then one stopped and nudged the others. They clustered together, backs towards her. Erin saw something flash in their palms. The hairs on the back of her neck rose, but she remained seated.
One of the Goblins came back. It was holding something in its hands. It held it out to her.
Erin stared down at the three small, tarnished silver coins in the Goblin’s cupped hands. She blinked. Once. Twice. Then she let go of the chair and stood up.
The Goblin flinched, but Erin moved very slowly. She reached out and touched the Goblin’s hands. They were rough, dirty, and warm. She closed them over the coins.
“The first meal is free.”
The Goblin stared at her. She stared back. It turned and fled. But it stopped at the door and said something. It sounded like ‘sqwsmsch.’ Then it was gone.
Erin sat back down and stared at the door. She blinked a few times and then smiled. She stared around at the inn and wiped at her eyes. Then she pulled the chair in to the table and put her arms down for a pillow.
She was asleep the instant her head touched the table.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:34:23)
Yay kindness.
Typos here
Grault (2023-03-14T22:24:55)
A giant rock stood in front of her inn.
The hell? Something must have attracted it. Maybe the smell of blood? Finding out what seems important, for when Erin is sound again.
Enzinc (2023-06-11T03:03:38)
This chapter made me cry. Like I didn’t feel much in the previous chapters, too horrific I guess. But Erin being traumatized and showing kindness? Makes my heart hurt.
Damon (2023-08-05T14:52:32)
>>The littlest Goblin’s gaze was empty, but like the other four Goblins…
Should this not be “other three Goblins”?
Salamander (2023-08-10T12:32:53)
Aw, we finally get to see some goblins as precious babies instead of bastards or silly little guys.
BAV (2023-10-20T18:43:47)
I’m surprised she didn’t level this chapter. What she did here seems like a very [Innkeeper] thing to do.
deadinside (2024-01-21T22:06:39)
(´T?T`)
Stenson (2024-06-19T04:03:08)
ARGH fk I wanna cry but I can’t
guih34 (2024-07-19T18:26:55)
Did she forget the goblin almost raped her? Feels kinda forced she being so suicidal
Mr anderson (2024-09-03T17:25:38)
They presumably hunt the goblins and the cheftian dying probably disrupted their flow enough that it needed to hunt
SamArcher72 (2024-12-10T22:45:13)
whelp, it’a bad day for rain isn’t it?
Arwen (2024-12-28T17:38:52)
Do you really think every girl traumatized by rape ends up hating and wanting to kill every single man she meets? Some end up hating all men, but some also find some kind ones they can love and be loved back. Your logic is just dumb because logic doesn’t work when emotions come into play.
Night Owl (2025-02-07T12:28:18)
Amazingly done trauma and amazingly resolved.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.17
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-17/

Erin woke up slowly. She woke up to the sight of a bag full of money on her table. For a moment, she thought the Goblin had left it.
It wasn’t the Goblin. In fact, the mysterious bag full of silver coins was courtesy of Klbkch. Erin peered down at the note he’d written and squinted to make out the words. To her amazement, it was legible, if slightly smudgy English! Even cursive?
For the destruction of a Hobgoblin Chieftain within the area of Liscor, you are hereby awarded 12 gold and 14 coins of silver, or equivalent in lesser denominations. Signed and witnessed by Senior Guardsman Klbkch.
—Senior Guardsman Klbkch
Post Script: Please excuse my poor handwriting, but I am not fluent in the script used by most Humans on this continent.
Erin peered down at the bag. She opened it and blinked at the sight of all the gleaming silver and gold.Gold. For a while, she stared at the shiny metal and watched as the sunlight made it glow. Then she closed the bag.
She gazed at the table. The money seemed like it was right out of a dream. But it didn’t actually matter much to her at the moment.
She looked back at the table. Had she dreamed that too? But no, she saw where the Goblin had spilled the blue fruit juice when she’d smiled at it. A large glowing fly was hovering over the table.
Erin sighed. But then she smiled. And suddenly, she knew what she was going to do.
First, she smacked the Acid Fly and ran around screaming until she washed the acid off. Then she ate breakfast, which were cold noodles mixed with sausage and onion. It was delicious. Then she walked down to the city.
A thought struck Erin as she walked. She’d have to go back to the market. The market where she’d lost all of her money. Her footsteps slowed and then picked up. Suddenly, Erin had two things to do today. She was looking forward to both.
——
The second time the Human female entered the market, every head turned. This time, it wasn’t just because of her smell. The looks were amused and hostile, a mix of both. But this time, they faltered a bit because the first time she had been pierced by all the stares.
This time, she returned the gazes until people looked away, but they watched her out of the corners of their eyes.
Erin marched right up to the stall where she’d been ripped off. She glared at the Drake and then squinted. They had purple scales, but it was more of a lilac-purple. And they looked a bit—smoother-scaled? There was a different curve to their face. Erin hesitated.
“Wait a second. Have we met?”
The Drake shook her head. A distinctlyfemale voice emerged from the toothy mouth.
“Do you wish to buy a necklace, Human?”
Erin eyed the pendants and other jewelry on display.
“Later, maybe. Right now, I want to talk to the Drake guy who ripped me off the other day. You know; the one that took all my money. The ugly one.”
The other customers and shopkeepers nearby who heard that laughed loudly. The female Drake grinned and covered her smile. She pointed, and Erin turned to see a scowling Drake four stalls down.
“You.”
Erin marched over to the Drake. He glared at her, but now, Erin reflected the glower and added more to it. He shifted his gaze pointedly over Erin’s head. She cleared her throat. When he still ignored her, she kicked the bottom of his stall.
The Drake looked down and snapped at her.
“What do you want?”
Erin gave him a polite smile without any of the sincerity.
“Why, I’d like to do business. Jerk.”
The Drake hissed under his breath. He shook his head at her and flicked his tail in her direction.
“My store’s closed to you, Human. I won’t sell to those without a hint of respect for others.”
“Respect? I have tons of respect. Just for anyone who’s not you.”
Several of the other shopkeepers laughed at that. Erin noticed she and the Drake were drawing a crowd. She didn’t particularly care.
The shopkeeper Drake glared harder at Erin.
“You’re obstructing my business. Leave before I summon the Watch.”
He turned his back on Erin, but she rapped on his counter.
“My business withyou isn’t done yet. I want my money back. You ripped me off the other day.”
The Drake looked over his shoulder.
“So? I offered you my goods, and you paid my price. That is a basic rule of buying and selling. I have done nothing wrong.”
There was a general murmur of agreement from some of the shop owners and a discontented rumble among the shoppers. A Gnoll woman leaned over her stall, opening her mouth, but he shot her such a ferocious look she fell silent. She was watching Erin, anyway. There was an expression she liked on the Human’s face this time, and she stood closer to the shop counter, not huddling like she had on the first day.
Erin Solstice leaned over the counter and fixed the Drake with a glare.
“Oh yeah? What if I’m not happy about what you sold me? I think for two and a half gold coins you should be selling me enough onions to fill the bottom floor of my inn. So how about I return to you what I’ve purchased and you give me a complete refund?”
The Drake sneered at her.
“Do you take me for a slow-witted hatchling or a Human fool? I won’t accept food that’s days old! Besides, this store does not give out refunds!”
“Really? Where does it say that?”
“Right here.”
The Drake pointed to a sign. Erin stared at it and up at him with narrowed eyes amidst the laughter. She heard a lowgrowl from the Gnoll woman and hesitated. Then she grinned mirthlessly.
“Oh, right. Itdoes say that, doesn’t it? Too bad I can’t read. But I do remember you had your prices listed as well, didn’t you?”
She looked around at the other pieces of paper pinned to the wooden stall. The Drake shopkeeper lunged, but Erin was quicker. She pulled the familiar piece of paper away and waved it in front of his face.
“Well. Why don’t we call the Watch after all? Buying and selling is all very well, but what about sticking to prices you write down?”
The Drake shopkeeperhissed again, long and slow this time. His eyes flicked to the paper and back to Erin’s face. He wasn’t sweating, but Erin was pretty sure lizards didn’t sweat. Or maybe he just didn’t think he was in trouble yet.
“Even—even if you have that bit of paper, what of it? I sell to many customers. And you—I barely remember what I sold to my last customer, let alone you.”
“A bag of flour, one pot of oil, a small bag of salt, sugar, yeast, four sausages, and two onions.”
Erin said it instantly. She paused for a second.
“And one crappy bag.”
The Drake stared at her with an open mouth. She smiled sweetly at him.
“I’ve got a good memory. A really good one, actually. Perfect for numbers and lists.”
He didn’t have much to say to that. But the look on the shopkeeper’s face told Erin he wasn’t about to start tossing gold coins around. She leaned over the counter and stared at him. She wished she wasn’t so close. His breath smelled of rotten meat.
“I want my money back. I’ll give you a few silver coins for what I paid, but I’m not leaving here until you give me my money. Now, we can do this the hard way and call a bunch of people over and you can lose all your business for the day,or you can give my money back and I’ll—hey, is that a chess board?”
Erin pointed at one of the Drake shopkeeper’s displays. Everyone turned and looked. Amid the cluster of items he was selling, the Drake had a few chessboards complete with little pieces fashioned into Drakes and Gnolls!
Erin saw aknight piece in armor, a Drake with a sword and a shield, and her eyes locked on what was, instead of a bishop, someone with robes and a staff. A mage? But everything was the same; it was even set up, and he had a little sign attached to it that she couldn’t read. It had something like exclamation marks, though, so she guessed it was a hot product?
Suddenly, Erin’s fury about being ripped off was replaced by pure fascination and excitement.
“Oh hey, it is! It’s just like—I mean, the pieces are different, but it’s chess, it is!”
The Drake snarled and batted Erin’s hands away.
“Get your hands off that! This is a valuable item! These are custom-carved and based on the Titan of Baleros’ standardized rules! The best [Tactician] in Liscor plays on these very boards I sell! I bet you don’t even know how the game is played!”
Erin glared back. Her hands were suddenlyitching to hold a chess piece.
“It’s a chess board made out of wood. Unless it’s made out of gold—which it’s not—it’s about as expensive as that food you sold me. So I guess you’re selling this for three gold coins, too?”
That got another laugh from the crowd who had gathered to watch Erin’s showdown with the shopkeeper. The Drake, on the other hand, just grabbed the chess board and pieces and went to shove them below his counter. Then he stopped and turned to her with a gleam in his eye.
“Are you a player of chess, Human? If so, why don’t we bet on a game?”
Erin raised one eyebrow.
“You mean, we play a game of chess for my money? Why should I do that?”
The Drake spread his arms innocently. Erin noticed his tail was wagging on the floor, but she pretended not to notice.
“Human, you and I have a dispute. I refuse to pay for goods sold, and you refuse to leave. So long as you’re stinking up my storefront, I won’t have any business, so I offer a wager in good faith. Win against the player of my choice and I will pay you back the money you paid me, though it will cost me my goods that I have earned honestly. Lose and you agree in front of witnesses not to bother me again. That is my best offer.”
“Lism…”
Once again, the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] growled warningly, and even the glare he shot her didn’t keep her from opening her mouth. Even one of the other Drakes looked concerned.
“Lism, that’s a bit much…”
Erin narrowed her eyes at ‘Lism,’ and the [Shopkeeper] shot glares at the others to keep them silent while he gave her an innocent look. She knew something was up, but Erin just thought for a moment and then nodded. Her lips twitched once, but she managed to suppress them.
“Fine. Let’s play.”
The shopkeeper smiled down at her. It was a smile full of teeth.
“Give me ten minutes to call over my player. Then I will teach you why it is unwise to bet against your betters.”
Erin gave him a big, happy smile.
“Fuck you.”
——
Twenty minutes later, Erin sat at a table in the middle of the street and played with a pawn. She set up the board and checked that it was right.
“All the pieces are in the right spots? And these move like this?”
She turned to one of the onlookers, the super-tall Gnoll woman whom she’d met on the first day. The Gnoll squatted next to the board and frowned, conferring with a few others.
“Hrr. Yes. That’s exactly how they move. You should call the Watch, Miss Human. You won’t win this game.”
Erin blinked at her. The woman sounded concerned and kindly. She nodded to the purple-scaled Drake, Lism, who was marching back with Erin’s opponent in tow.
“Your opponent is very good, and Lism, that slimy bastard, will refuse to pay you if you lose.”
“I know. How good is my opponent?”
“The best in Liscor.”
The young woman’s fingers stopped moving as she picked up a little piece and admired it. Erin glanced into the Gnoll woman’s face and exhaled.
“That good, huh? Got it.”
She didn’t get up or stop arranging the chess pieces. The Gnoll woman gave Erin an exasperated look and stood up, shaking her head. She joined the watchers as Erin got up to inspect whomever Lism had brought.
This Drake was interesting. He was shorter than Lism, clearly younger, and his scales were sky-blue, not a grungy purple. He had a light tunic on with the same insignia as Relc’s badge, and he had a few ink stains on his claws.
He also lookedfascinated by Erin and actually held out a claw to shake before Lism brushed forwards.
“Here he is, my nephew. Olesm, meet, er, this Human.”
“What a delight. A Human? A [Trader]? What’s this about, Uncle? I’m supposed to be at work, you know—”
The Drake had a pleasant voice, and he looked around nervously, but Lism hushed him.
“The Council will spare you a few moments, Olesm. Just sit down and win a game or two.”
He smiled innocuously at Erin, and the young woman saw the younger Drake try to hold out his clawed hand again and once more Lism stopped him.
Olesm was his name?He was thinner than the shopkeeper, but the Drake was still taller than she was. He sighed, glanced at his uncle, and finished setting up the pieces on his side with clear familiarity. Olesm seated himself and smiled at Erin across the table.
“I apologize, Miss Human. I rarely get a chance to play any games within the city these days. May I know whom I am playing against?”
“Of course. My name’s Erin. Erin Solstice.”
He nodded to her.
“I am Olesm. I believe you know my uncle, who asked me to play in this match.”
Erin gave her opponent a friendly, genuine smile and then looked over his shoulder.
“Is that your uncle? My, you two don’t look alike.”
The Drake hovering over his nephew’s shoulder hissed at her. Olesm raised what would have been his eyebrows if he had any.
“I understand this is a game with a wager. I would urge you not to bet against me. I am quite a good player.”
The shopkeeper interjected quickly.
“We have already agreed to the terms. The Human cannot back out now.”
Olesm glanced at his uncle, irritated, and opened his mouth to reply, but Erin shook her head.
“I’m not backing down. Let’s play. Besides, I wouldn’t want to disappoint the crowd.”
She gestured at the crowd of watching people. They were definitely people, but Erin wasn’t sure what else to call them. Drakes, Gnolls, and even one of Klbkch’s kind, the Antinium, were all gathered in a circle to watch the game. The Gnolls and Drakes stood close by, and Erin noted the Antinium was sweeping the street.
But every now and then, quite often, it would glance at the board, and it seemedreally keen on getting the dust out from behind some stalls. None of the Gnolls or Drakes paid any attention to the Antinium save to keep their distance, and the crowd was quite distracted, anyways.
Some of them seemed to be betting as well, and though Erin couldn’t hear what they were saying, they didn’t seem to be betting on her victory.
“Are you sure, Miss? I really am quite good. I will be playing at my best.”
The blue-scaled Drake looked anxious, but Erin gave him a bland smile.
“I don’t intend to lose either.”
Olesm sighed, but made no further objection. Instead, he peered at the board and made sure his pieces were all aligned within the squares. He struck Erin as a very meticulous and careful type, which made him unique among the Drakes she’d met so far.
“I’m surprised you know about this game. It was invented just a few years ago. By the Titan of Baleros himself. I’ve been playing it nearly since it came out, but it’s not caught hold yet in a lot of cities.”
“You don’t say.”
Erin was busy examining the board, but she found that fascinating. She had already gone over the rules, but…she lifted one eye and then put a confused look on her face. Erin tapped one of the pieces, a Drake with a scepter and crown.
“I’m not sure if the rules I know are the same in that case. This piece here. You can move a king together with a rook like this, right?”
The Drake blinked.
“That’s right. I’m surprised you know that move.”
“Oh, I’ve seen a few players use it. Knights move like this, right?”
“Correct.”
“And pawns can move two spaces on their first move, right? And if a piece is here, they can take it diagonally?”
Lism was trying to hide a gloating smile as the Gnoll woman groaned and the onlookers hastily tried to amend their bets one way. However, Olesm looked quite pleased by Erin’s questions.
“You seem to know this game. Well, well. This might be a good challenge after all.”
Erin smiled blandly at the Drake.
“I’m no expert. But there’s a wager on this one, so I’ll play my best. The white side moves first.”
“Indeed it does.”
The shopkeeper smirked, and the other watchers crowded around closer as Olesm pushed a pawn forwards. Erin smiled at him.
“Not many players lead with a pawn from the side. Most like going down the center.”
She pushed a pawn forward quickly. Olesm shrugged as he contemplated his next move.
“I have found this strategy to work in some of my games. It is fascinating to play such a new game of strategy, and so I always test new theories out on the board.”
A game that had only been out two years? So he probably didn’t even have a name for that opening move. The shopkeeper anxiously hovered over Olesm’s shoulder. He hissed in the younger Drake’s earhole.
“So long as you win. You must win no matter what.”
Olesm narrowed his eyes but didn’t take his eyes from the board. Eventually, he pushed forwards a pawn to counter Erin’s pawn. He was chatting conversationally as Erin moved a piece too-quickly. Olesm was clearly thinking over each move, but Erin seemed not to be thinking at all.
“So you’re really good at chess in Liscor, huh? Have you played a lot of games?”
Erin pushed another piece forwards instantly and shrugged. Olesm blinked, and the onlookers muttered.
“A few. But should you not spend more time thinking?”
She waved a hand at him.
“Don’t worry, don’t worry. I’m having a blast. I just think fast about my next move, that’s all.”
Olesm frowned at her, looking irritated by her attitude. He pushed forwards a rook in reply, a bit hastily, and retorted, though she doubted he was the snappish type. He was more…peeved.
“You should think harder. I have played over a hundred games so far and won over two-thirds of them. If you truly are betting something important, it would not do to lose this game so easily.”
Erin smiled back at him.
“A hundred? Wow. But like I said, don’t worry. I like to play chess too. And I’ve played a…few games too. I’m not worried.”
“Why’s that?”
Erin smiled wider.
“Because I’m going to win.”
——
By the time Relc got to the market street Erin was on, the game had gone on for twenty minutes. A few customers were at the stands haggling, but most were still watching the game. One smart Gnoll was selling them food as they watched, and the shopkeepers seemed content to put their business on hold to watch the fun.
Relc was not having fun. He shoved his way to the front of the crowd and grabbed Erin. The crowd protested angrily. So did Erin.
“Hey, what are you doing?”
“What areyou doing?”
Relc snapped back at her. He pointed angrily to the game of chess where Olesm was taking his time considering his next move.
Erin shrugged.
“This? I’m getting my money back. Let go of my shirt. You’ll poke holes in it.”
She tried to peel off Relc’s claws from her shirt. Relc let go, but pulled her away from the game. He leaned forwards and hissed at her.
“Stop playing. This isn’t a fair game.”
“What?”
Erin looked at the board and back at Relc.
“You can’t cheat in chess. It’s fair.”
“No, it’s not.”
Relc raised his voice and pointed to the shopkeeper.
“Hey, you! Yeah, you. I know you. Stop the game. This isn’t fair. The bet’s off.”
The crowd rumbled in discontent at Relc’s words. The Drake shopkeeper spread his claws out innocently.
“It is a fair game. She let me name my player, and we agreed to the wager. There are many witnesses. It would be wrong to cancel the game now, Senior Guardsman.”
Relc eyed the Drake shopkeeper balefully. Erin noticed the shopkeeper’s tail was wagging a bit. He also had a gleeful look if she was reading his face right.
“I hate to agree with that jerk, but he’s right, Relc. I agreed to the wager, and I want to play. I’m going to win my money back and play some chess while I’m at it.”
“Are you crazy? You’re going tolose this game.”
Relc hissed at Erin. She blinked up at him.
“Am I? Why’s that?”
Relc growled under his breath. He jerked a thumb over at the seated Drake who was studying the board with a frown.
“That guy you’re playing? He’s a [Tactician]. The highest-leveled one in the city!”
Erin blinked again.
“So? Does that mean he’s good at chess?”
“Very!”
“Well, so am I. It’s still a fair game, isn’t it?”
“No! Are you stupid?”
Relc seemed close to tearing out the spines on his head.
“All [Tacticians] can tell when they’re being led into a trap! They’re good at playing these games—they haveSkills! Tactics are a [Tactician] thing—it’s in the name! How do you not know this? If you play one in a game, they’ll win almost every time! Plus, that idiot loves to play that stupid game!”
The Olesm looked up and glared at Relc.
“I’m not using any Skills. I am simply matching Miss Solstice in a game of wits, Relc. Practice makes the player.”
Erin glared too, much to Relc’s chagrin. She jabbed him in the leg with a finger, looking more annoyed by his comments about chess than her odds.
“It’s not a stupid game. And so what if he likes to play? Like I said, so do I. And I’m a good player.”
“You still can’t win.”
“I can.”
“Youcan’t.”
“Oh, hi Klbkch.”
Erin turned away from Relc and waved at the silent ant man who had come up behind Relc. Klbkch nodded at her politely.
“Miss Solstice. Please forgive my companion’s interruption. We are on duty, and it is improper of us to disturb a member of the public without cause. But Relc insisted we speak with you once we heard of the bet that had been made.”
“Really? You heard about the bet?”
Klbkch nodded.
“Indeed. It is all over the city.”
“Yeah, everyone was talking about the stupid Human who was dumb enough to wager on a game of chess against that idiot.”
Relc jerked his thumb at Olesm. The other Drake continued pondering the board, but Erin could see him grinding his teeth in his seat.
Klbkch nodded and leaned forwards to confer with Erin. Lism looked worried as two [Guards] glanced his way, but he clearly didn’t like Relc or Klbkch. Especially Klbkch from how he glowered.
“I understand this is a bet made to recover your lost coin. However, I fear I must issue the same warning as Relc. The odds of you winning a game against Olesm are quite slim.”
At this point, Erin was getting exasperated by everyone telling her the same thing, but she glanced at her opponent, and a mischievous smile crossed her face.
“Olesm. Oh yeah, that’s what his name is.”
Erin covered a smile as Olesm’s eye twitched. She turned to Klbkch and Relc.
“Look, I’m glad you two care. But I’ve got this. It’s fine. You’ll see.”
The two guardsmen stared at her, unconvinced. Relc turned to Klbkch and whispered. Unfortunately, his voice was still quite loud, and Erin and those around them could hear him quite plainly.
“I don’t think she gets it. Humans are kinda slow. You explain the [Tactician] bit to her.”
“I believe you have given her adequate information. If she will not listen to you, she will not listen to me.”
“Exactly. So stop calling me stupid or I’ll hit you.”
Erin glared at Relc, who shuffled his feet and looked away. She glared at Klbkch, who raised all four of his hands and bowed his head, and then shifted her glare back to Relc.
“Let me play. You two can watch, but I’m going to play and win.”
“But—”
Erin raised a finger.
“No. Go away and let me play.”
Relc opened his mouth, closed it, and then hissed long and loud. He threw up his hands and stomped back into the crowd.
“Humans!”
Erin slid back into her seat and smiled at Olesm.
“Sorry about that.”
Olesm glanced over Erin’s shoulder and sniffed at Relc and Klbkch.
“Think nothing of it. But if we’re done with the interruptions, it’s your move.”
“So it is.”
Erin pondered the board. Then she slid another piece forwards.
“Oi, Klbkch. What’s she doing? Was that a good move? It looked like a bad move.”
“I am uncertain at this point. Allow me a few moments to assess the board before I give you my opinion. And please, lower your voice.”
Erin covered a smile as Olesm’s eye twitched. She waited for him to play another piece. As she did, she studied the board.
Chess. The pieces were different, and she was playing in a street in a city full of walking lizards and talking ants. But it was still chess.
It waswonderful to play again.
——
Olesm frowned as he toyed with a bishop Erin had cornered with one of her knights. He had no idea what a ‘bishop’ was; the [Carvers] had styled it after a [Mage] instead, but the Titan had referred to it thusly and that was how it was called in the game’s rules.
Naturally, Olesm used the word because anything the Titan did, he did. The Drake moved the piece diagonally one way and then frowned. Then he moved it another way and frowned again. He glanced up at Erin.
She stared back at him innocently. The Human waited as the Drake moved his piece back and forth around a rook she’d used to attack his queen and then took one of her pawns with it. His frown didn’t go away, but he seemed content with the move. For about three seconds.
Erin moved another of her pieces forwards instantly. Her knight—a scaly Drake with a buckler in one hand and a scimitar in the other—took one of his pawns.
“Check.”
A susurration went through the audience around the two players. That was, except for Relc, who had gone to one of the stalls to buy something to eat. Olesm leaned back in his chair and gave Erin an admiring look.
“Well done, I hadn’t anticipated that.”
“It was just a lucky move. Well, not lucky, but it was quite nice, wasn’t it?”
“Indeed.”
Olesm moved his king sideways.
“Your turn.”
Erin pointed at the board.
“Oh, that’s check too. Sorry.”
Erin tapped her queen and pointed down the board. The Drake player grimaced and moved his king the other way.
“That’s check as well. See the rook?”
Olesm paused and blinked at the table. The crowd murmured more loudly, and Relc came back to look at the table.
After a minute, Olesm made a move that wasn’t check, and the game went on. But now, he took longer and longer between each move, and his frown, which had started about five minutes ago, didn’t go away.
Meanwhile, his uncle, the shopkeeper, watched the board with clear anxiety. He glared at Erin, who smiled serenely back at him. Whenever Olesm made a move, she would instantly move a piece and take one of his own or threaten his king. Eventually, she stopped staring at the board and stared at the shopkeeper with a smile on her face as Olesm frantically searched the board for a comeback.
Something was wrong. At first, he’d thought she was careless. But as the game had progressed, Olesm had noticed he was losing more pieces. Yet he didn’t process his vague sense of unease until this moment. He began moving his pieces, taking few of hers, and watched as his began to fly off the board.
Like someone creeping up on him.Like a Rock Crab, the young woman closed her trap. And the ‘even game’ he’d thought he’d been playing began turning into—the young woman smiled at Olesm and Lism.
Her voice was quite even, but she kept speaking each time she moved a piece. Not every turn, but she said it to the crowd’s growing amazement. It was just part of the game. Although, the way she said it might be a bit rude.
Nevertheless, Erin calmly looked Olesm in the eyes as she placed a piece near his king.
“Check.”
“Check.”
“Ooh, no check this turn. But watch out for your rook. It’s that or your queen.”
“Check.”
“Check. And it’s check if you do that too. And that…”
“Check.”
“Check.”
“Check.”
Erin Solsticeby ArtsyNada
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:34:52)
Typo here yes thank
Kai (2023-03-07T19:02:51)
I’m struggling not to spoilerfy my comments for any new readers. But I’m absolutely loving the foreshadowing and cameos!
Thari prasad (2023-03-08T18:13:47)
Lolol??
juppie (2023-03-11T19:04:55)
Indeed, same here.
Grault (2023-03-14T23:02:12)
She jabbed him in theleg with a finger,
??? Normally that would be in the chest. He’s notthat much taller.
Ryuuku (2023-04-07T14:59:49)
Erin is adorable! Not a typo, but just had to say it.
tom (2023-05-19T08:34:46)
I love this book, thank you so much for writing it!
sam (2023-07-01T07:51:24)
she is seated
Damon (2023-08-05T15:20:10)
>>”Your opponent is very good, and Lism, that slimy bastard, will refuse to pay you if you lose.”
He doesn’t need to pay if she loses. He’ll refuse to pay if she wins
Takusaka (2023-10-03T11:02:05)
A game that had only been out two years?
They didn’t specify the amount of years, they just said ‘a few years’.
marine (2023-10-17T16:00:17)
I have a theory about why this chess seems to match earth’s chess (even the piece names)
so we know other people from earth arrived, but it never actually said when they got here. What if that was a flashback to years ago, and the “Titan” is actually some general or trained strategist from earth who is basically centuries ahead of everyone else (assuming they use early modern military strategies, just as how most of the society seems early modern)
or if not the Titan, someone close to the Titan who acts as an “aid”
Toni (2023-11-24T02:05:38)
You’ve probably figured this out by now, I’m guessing. But I’m just going to say this anyways: when the scene of the other people being summoned happened, it was started by saying something to the effect of “something was happening, and even Pisces and Erin could feel it, ileven if only very subtly”. Essentially saying that it is current.
my personal theory for now, is that the summoning spell has been in development for a long time, and there were a few test uses before the big one. Erin was one of those, and this “titan” fella probably is too
Reflection (2024-04-22T06:14:05)
Somebody who’s played ~100 games is getting a absolutely smacked so hard by anybody who’s played thousands of games for years. But they don’t know that lmao. They didn’t make it super clear, but he may have played an english? Or gone for a 1. h4 like a complete newbie lol.
Mr anderson (2024-09-03T17:39:43)
Thank you, that’s a common problem with long standing or re-released books, I had to avoid worm comment sections for the same reason
AbraCadaver (2024-10-09T11:29:13)
This scene reminds me of the drinking game scene inKill Six Billion Demons :)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.18
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-18/

“Checkmate.”
At last, Erin slid her last rook into position. Olesm stared at the board and then tipped over his king with a trembling claw.
A sigh ran through the audience surrounding the chessboard. It sounded like disbelief. The choking noise coming from Lism’s mouth was like a lawnmower engine failing to rev up. But the rest of the crowd exhaled in pure amazement.
The tall Gnoll woman’s arms were slightly uncrossed, and she was eying Erin with a look of amazement. Relc—pure incredulity as he peered at the board. Klbkch was counting how many pieces Erin had left. Then, his head rose, and he looked at Erin, surprised. Nodding to himself, as if he’d suddenly seen something obvious that had been hidden by the clouds.
Erin cracked her fingers and grinned. It wasn’t her best game, but she’d gone for drama over efficiency. Her opponent had a single king left in the middle of her pieces, and she had a small army surrounding him. She smiled up at Olesm, who’d turned pale. Her audience was gaping at her and the chess board.
Two rooks, one knight, a bishop, her queen, and a few pawns. Olesm had one king. Technically, he’d been in check for a long time, but Erin had hunted down the last pawns before putting him into a final checkmate.
She would have been ashamed of herself, doing this to any other rookie player. It was rude, bullying, and any chess tourney in the world would have probably had some things to say to her in private or called her out on the spot.
But she wasn’t home, on Earth, and she had never taken a game as personally as this one. Erin stared up at unfamiliar skies and the open ramps and sprawling architecture of a city unknown to her. Drakes and Gnolls, gazing at her with faces full of scales and fur.
She couldn’t even read the signs. But the game? Erin Solstice’s eyes tingled slightly. The game had never left her. Chess.Her game. The pieces looked different, but it played the exact same way, and she knew that board more than she knew the back of her hand or her own room. She had sat on both ends of the board ever since she was five years old. 
The blue Drake, Olesm, was still in a state of shock. He was staring at his lone king, tipped over, like he didn’t know what had hit him. And to be fair—Erin had to admit she didn’t look like a chess expert. Who did, though?
She was no grandmaster, anyways. She’d quit, come back—it was a long story. But it was enough to say that if chess was a few years old in this world, Olesm, who might have…four years? She had forgotten how long the game was out.
Call it a four-year-old chess player going up against someone with at least four times his career. She’d played grandmasters—and sometimes won. And that had been when she was a girl.
“Good game. Let’s play again sometime, okay?”
Erin reached over and patted Olesm on the shoulder. The Drake looked slightly shell-shocked and made no reply. Erin waited, then shrugged and stood.
Klbkch and Relc made their way through the crowd to her. Relc was still pointing at the board and gobbling.
“You won. But how did—but he’s—you won!”
“Congratulations on your victory, Miss Solstice.”
“Why thank you, Klbkch.”
Erin grinned at Klbkch. The ant man nodded back.
“May I ask how you managed such an incredible display? I would not have thought it possible, nor deemed it prudent to bet against Olesm in a game of chess until this moment.”
Erin shrugged. There was no harm in telling. Besides, both the shopkeeper and his nephew were still staring at the board.
“You said he’s played for a few years, right?”
Klbkch nodded.
“And he is a Level 22 [Tactician]. There are few higher-level [Tacticians] even within the Liscorian army. Although that is largely because most consolidate to [Strategist].”
Erin had no idea what that meant, but she nodded as if she understood.
“Good for him. But I’ve been playing chess for…at least fifteen years, now. I stopped playing for a while until recently, but I used to play at least three games before I went to sleep each night. He might have a fancy Skill, but a rookie’s still a rookie.”
This time, it was Klbkch’s turn to do the staring with Relc. Erin smiled at both of them and then tapped the shopkeeper on the shoulder.
“I want my money back. All of it, thank you. And while you’re at it, I’ll buy the chess board and pieces too.”
The Drake gaped at her. Then the color returned to the scales in his face, and he backed away.
“I—that game was—”
Erin interrupted him.
“If you’re about to say it was rigged, don’t bother. And if you want a rematch, I’ll gladly play again if you double how much you owe me. Which is a bad idea because I’ll win. I want my money.”
The Drake blanched, and his scales turned pale. Erin smiled at him. His tail was twitching hard in agitation.
“My mind is…slightly hazy. I’m afraid I have no recollection of how much you spent. Unless of course you could tell me?”
Erin gave him a winning smile.
“Two gold pieces, seven silver, and four copper exactly. I don’t have a receipt, but I’m sure Klbkch and Relc could help you find out.”
Lism stared at Erin as if doubting her memory, but it was just numbers. Like chess moves—Erin couldn’t remember the Pythagorean Theorem to save her life, but she could remember entire chess games. At her words, Klbkch nodded seriously and bowed in his direction.
“As Senior Guardsmen, we would be happy to provide assistance in assessing all financial income for your business, as well as any unpaid taxes that may be extant. For now, we will have to order your shop closed while we begin a thorough investigation of your wares and inventory.”
Relc grinned evilly.
“Right. Let’s start flipping over tables until we find a receipt.”
The Drake shopkeeper made a strangled shrieking sound. He tried to block Relc, but the Drake [Guardsman] was already happily trashing his store. Erin hid a grin.
Only now did Lism’s nephew seem to come out of his stupor. He jerked, looked at the chess board, then stood slowly. Olesm walked up to her, his tail dragging low on the ground. But he did hold out a clawed hand to shake.
“I must congratulate you, Miss Solstice. I have been truly humbled by your skill. Please, accept my sincerest apologies for questioning your ability.”
Erin fidgeted awkwardly. She hated this bit. At least he was taking it better than some. There was no shame in losing. Sometimes you got frustrated, but when pride was on the line or you refused to admit you’d lost to agirl—she took his hand and shook it gently, looking into his eyes.
“Oh no, you were a good player too. I really shouldn’t have played like that as well against a rooki—another player.”
“You are too kind. But I know when I’m outclassed. I have to ask—are you a [Tactician] by any chance?”
“Me? No. I’m not. Sorry?”
Olesm drooped further. Erin could practically feel him kicking himself. She tried to cheer him up.
“Don’t feel bad. I’m not a professional player, but I’ve won a chess tournament or two in my time. I’ve even played a grandmaster and won. One of the few female ones, which was really cool. But I was so nervous at the time I totally forgot to castle, and I lost my rook to—”
Erin broke off and cleared her throat, blushing. It was a bad memory, but at least Olesm stopped looking like a kicked puppy-lizard. Indeed, he was staring at her with vivid interest.
“Is this ‘grandmaster’ you speak of a class? Is it possible—could I take such a class myself?”
An alarm bell went off in Erin’s head. She tried to think fast and failed.
“Um. Maybe? It’s more like a title where I come from. Besides, grandmasters only play chess. I’m not sure if that’s a class.”
Olesm nodded. Erin could practically see him taking notes in his head.
“Perhaps it’s a class only obtainable at high levels in the [Strategist] class line. If ever I have the opportunity, I shall take that class at once.”
“You can do that?”
Erin blurted it out. Olesm nodded again.
“Of course. I am merely a lowly [Tactician], the first of the [Strategist] class line. But should I advance in level and learn more skills, I might qualify for the [Strategist] class. And perhaps after that I might one day become a [Grandmaster]…? It makes my scales shiver to imagine such a class.”
Olesm stared dreamily off into the air. Erin edged away from him a bit.
“Right, well good luck with that.”
She wanted to go back and get her money, which the Drake shopkeeper was practically begging Relc to take as the other Drake frolicked in the destruction of his shop. But Olesm had her cornered, and now Klbkch was on her tail.
“Miss Solstice. I believe this is your wager.”
He offered her the exact lost sum she’d quoted. Erin took the coins gratefully.
“Thank you, Klbkch.”
He raised his mandibles and opened them in a…smile? Olesm edged back from Klbkch at once, but not far. The Antinium nodded politely.
“I am merely fulfilling my duty as a member of the Watch. And once again, may I congratulate you on your victory? I would greatly enjoy playing a game against you once I am off-duty.”
Olesm nodded in fervent agreement. Erin smiled and wondered whether they’d follow her back to the inn.
“Another game? Sure, sure. After I finish my shopping—well, one or two more games won’t hurt, but I don’t have time today.”
Klbkch nodded while Olesm visibly drooped. Erin felt bad, but she also knew his type. As in the type of player who would challenge her to another game day and night unless she said no.
“Tell you what, next time, we can play a bunch of games. Not just chess—if you guys have got other strategy games, I’d love to play them too.”
Olesm’s face lit up.
“Do you like these kinds of games, Miss Solstice? Gnollstones? Magical cards? I’m sure you must be quite good at any game you play.”
Erin grinned and waved a hand self-deprecatingly, but her ears perked up at the fascinating names. She noticed Klbkch glancing at Olesm silently, but then the ant man returned his attention to her.
“Oh, I love all kinds of strategy games. I always surfed YouTube for—uh, what I mean is, I used to watch and play tons of chess games. And not just chess; I learned how to play Shogi, Go, and even a few card games. But I couldn’t gamble, so there was that.”
Erin shrugged. Olesm stared at her blankly.
“Excuse me, but I am unfamiliar with these games. Is ‘shogi’ another game of strategy as chess is?”
“No, no. Shogi is a game that originated in Japan. And, uh, Japan is…and…um…”
Erin trailed off. Klbkch and Olesm stared at her intently. She could practically see the Drake’s eyes lighting up in eager interest.
It occurred to Erin that trying to explain a game that originated in a country in a world that no one had heard of that used a language based off of a culture which also didn’t exist would probably be a bad idea. But they were both staring at her. It was Klbkch who saved her.
“—Of course, these games are quite rare outside of your home nation, Miss Solstice. I doubt they would have permeated to Izril yet. I have heard of and observed Shogi before.”
Olesm glanced at him and hurriedly nodded before shaking his head.
“Oh! Yes! Sorry, it’s my mistake for not recognizing—hah, I suppose there are a lot of games I should look into. Forgive me.”
“Not at all. Um—maybe we should save that guy’s shop?”
Erin relaxed and pointed at Relc. Olesm turned, distracted, and Erin mouthed a silent ‘thank you’ at Klbkch. She could have sworn he twitched one antenna at her, like a wink.
——
Liscor had several markets that were open at any given time during the day. It also had many streets. So it had more than one Market Street too. But only one had a Human walking down the street and admiring the displays.
Erin’s feet hurt. She felt that was ridiculous. After all, she’d been playing chess while sitting down for nearly an hour. Yet, she hadn’t stopped smiling as she played first Olesm, then Klbkch in a series of quick games.
Which she’d won. All of them. A rare thing among chess players, but while they were good…Erin had enjoyed herself so much she’d been on fire, metaphorically speaking, and played her best.
Not only that, she had her money back!
Erin jingled the money pouch at her belt. Klbkch had helped her buy one to carry all the money she now had. It was wonderfully heavy and made lovelychinking sounds as Erin walked, but she was also worried someone would steal it.
That was why she had to spend all of it fast. Erin hesitated and then walked a few stores down from where the Drake shopkeeper was screaming over his destroyed shop and cursing Relc and Humans in general. She approached another stall, filled to bursting with all kinds of goods. It looked nice.
Each wooden stall was, simultaneously, identical and unique if that made sense. Identical because they were carbon-copy frames of wood, a counter and semi-enclosed space that each [Shopkeeper] could place their goods in and sell from. Erin had seen similar things at farmers’ markets back home.
What made them unique was that the canvas roofs were all hand-stitched and of different colors. So a blue tarpaulin covering might have tiny little golden Dragons on the edges, or another stall would just have a plain white cloth covering. And the goods were obviously different for each.
A Drake was selling what looked like…armor? Made out of eerily black chitin. In fact, he even had a sword sheath shaped like a giant…leg. An insect’s leg. Erin wondered if Klbkch found it offensive, but she was reminded less of the Antinium’s beetle-ish forms and more of a spider.
Abig spider if that was the leg. She shuddered and hurried on, but the Drake was still calling out.
“Shield Spider gear! Cheaper than Pallassian steel and almost as good! Anyone fancy some adventurer’s equipment? No? Please?”
Not many people wanted to wear spider-based armor, it seemed. Another Gnoll was just selling pots and making a killing, from the looks of it. He had cheap cooking pots, cups, storage vessels—anything you could want. Erin was curious, but what she needed wasfood.
While there were a number of produce-selling shops, only a few had a myriad of goods, which Erin guessed were [Shopkeepers] like the terrible Lism, who had a bunch of items on display. One caught her eye, and it was a stall with a rich violet covering. Violet—with a silver-threaded fang in the center. Striking, attractive, and simple.
Erin had been too harried the other day to appreciate the shop, but she recognized the owner. And this time, she slowed down and really looked at the owner.
It was that tall Gnoll woman who’d warned her about Olesm! She, like many of her people, wasn’t wearing a full-body dress, but a kind of decorated breastband and waistcloth. It worked because, well, she was covered in fur.
A light mahogany color. Or…walnut? Erin wasn’t sure how many colors of brown she actually knew, but the fur covered the Gnoll from head-to-toe. Like the other Gnolls, she had a vaguely…hyena-shaped head? A mane of darker hair running down her neck, like Drakes had neck-spines, and her ‘fingers’ and ‘toes’ that Erin could see in her sandals were furry paws, although fully flexible.
She seemed well-known by a lot of the shoppers here and called out greetings to a few who passed. When she caught sight of Erin, the Gnoll woman sniffed.
Unlike the first time they’d met, the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] did not greet Erin or wave her over. She folded her arms and waited.
Erin winced inside, but there was nothing for it. She stepped closer and waved at the tall Gnoll.
“Um. Hi. Are you open for business?”
The Gnoll looked down at Erin. She wasn’t smiling.
“I am, and I see you’ve wrestled some coin out of Lism’s claws, that greedy hoarder. Good for you, Human. But if you are here to look down your nose again at my goods, I would prefer not to waste my time, no?”
She seemed offended, and Erin recalled that she’d run off straight to Lism and snubbed the Gnoll’s friendly greetings. Erin blushed and ducked her head.
“What? No, no. I’m actually here to, uh, apologize.”
Erin tried to gauge the Gnoll shopkeeper’s reaction. It was hard to read her face. Like Relc and Klbkch, a Gnoll’s face didn’t display the same expressions as a Human one. But Erin didn’t detect the same amount of hostility in her features.
“Oh? What do you have to say then?”
“Um. Sorry?”
The Gnoll raised one eyebrow, and her ears twitched back.That was a Human reaction, so Erin went on quickly.
“It’s just that I was having a bad day, and I met this other Gnoll whoreally didn’t like me. So, uh, I was kinda afraid you would get growly at me too. But I’m sorry about that. I shouldn’t judge by, uh, species.”
The Gnoll looked at her. Erin still couldn’t read her face. But—weren’t Gnolls kind of like hyenas? They looked like them. And hyenas were cats. Or maybe they were dogs. Either way, Erin peeked at the Gnoll’s ears.
They were twitching. And once Erin saw that, she saw the Gnoll’s lips were twitching the merest fraction. Erin tried out a smile. To her surprise, the Gnoll smiled back. And laughed. She had alot of sharp teeth, but the laugh was so boisterous Erin wasn’t as afraid.
“Hah! This is the first time I have heard a Human apologize in…months? A good day, yes? It is good you come to make amends. I will forgive you and forgive the smell you stink of as well.”
Erin frowned. Was this good or bad?
“Sorry, I don’t want to make you mad again. But—do I really smell that bad? I just had a bath.”
The Gnoll shopkeeper laughed again. She—and now that Erin looked, she wasdefinitely a she— clapped one hand on Erin’s shoulder. Erin’s knees buckled.
“I do not mock you, Human. But I laugh because I forget others do not have our nose. Forgive, please. You stepped in something on your way to the city.”
Erin rubbed at her shoulder surreptitiously. Then she looked down at her feet, made a face, and began dragging her foot around on the street.
“Eugh! What was—that’s so gross! I’m so sorry! I had that on my foot the entire time? You’re totally forgiven. Your nose is amazing! Do I, uh, smell at all beyond that?”
The Gnoll shopkeeper nodded, turning serious.
“You smell of burned ash and trash. No; not just that foul smell. Even burning trash smells better. I know not what it was, but I can still smell it on you. You could also use some soap, a shampoo for your hair.”
“Really? You can smell all that?”
Erin sniffed at her arm experimentally, but she smelled like she always did. Better, actually, since she had found the stream to wash up in.
The Gnoll wrinkled her nose.
“Oh yes. It’s not too bad now though. All that blood and oil covers it up.”
Erin froze. The Gnoll laughed at her expression. Then she sombered and gave Erin a long, appraising look.
“I smell that too. Blood and death. Yet you don’t stink of fear anymore. You smell like a [Warrior] from my tribe after their first battle or hunt. I am relieved for that, yes? You have a bravery in you, to win a fight to the death alone.”
“It’s nothing to be proud of.”
Erin replied automatically. Her stomach was dropping out of her legs, but the Gnoll shopkeeper didn’t seem to notice.
“Isn’t it? You stormed back here, trounced both Lism in words and his nephew in chess—although Olesm is the better of the two by far—and in front of all to see! Warrior and tactician, both! A fine day for a young woman to have—”
“No.”
Erin cut the shopkeeper off flatly.
“It’s not anything to be proud of. At all.”
The Gnoll stared down at her. Erin met her gaze. At last, the Gnoll shrugged.
“Hrm. If you insist. I apologize if I’ve erred. Humans can be difficult to understand.”
That last remark stung. Erin gritted her teeth.
“Why do all of you say that? I’m Human. So what?”
The Gnoll grinned at her with all her teeth.
“Because youare Human. Few of us have ever seen your kind here, let alone talked to one.”
Erin smiled sourly.
“Well, you’re the first Gnoll I’ve talked to. The first one that wasn’t angry at me, at least.”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] laughed and slapped Erin on the shoulder again, but gently. Two huge brown eyes met Erin’s, and she growled in approval.
“Hah! You are a spirited one! I like you. So I will introduce myself. I am Krshia, [Shopkeeper] and seller of goods. And you are the Human who slew the Goblin Chieftain! What is your name, brave little one?”
So she knew, already, who Erin had killed. The young woman bit her tongue.
“I’m Erin. Erin Solstice.”
Erin stuck out her hand but found herself grabbed and squeezed tightly by the Gnoll shopkeeper. It was a bear hug by a creature that looked sort of like a bear. She was strong enough for a bear too, and Erin felt oxygen quickly leaving her body.
The Gnoll must have heard Erin squeak or felt her dying because she eased up on the pressure. She sniffed at Erin, only wrinkling her nose slightly. For Erin’s part, she smelled spices, sweat, a strong doggish smell, and that earthy smell that came from a day or two of not bathing. Then she was on the ground blinking up at the Gnoll.
“There. We have met, and we are now friends. Come into my shop, Erin Solstice, and tell me what you need. For the pleasure of seeing Lism humiliated, I will give you a discount. And I will not steal your coins. That is a promise from a Gnoll of the Silverfang tribe.”
“Silverfang?”
Erin blinked at her, but stepped inside the stall and looked around. Her first impression of Krshia’s full stall was of a dazzling panorama of goods. Sacks of food, neatly labelled as ‘wheat’, ‘rye’, ‘ashwheat’, and so on, occupied the lower part of the stall. In English, along with labels in that foreign script! Higher up were some books with interesting labels. Erin saw only a few on display, and they were pricey—gold instead of silver! But Krshia had a bunch of knives sharing space with some earrings made out of what might have been pure silver and bits of gemstone.
At first, it looked like everything, but Erin noted gaps in the stock. It appeared everything Krshia sold was in popular demand. She blinked as she took in the huge supply.
“Wow. Okay. That’s a lot of stuff. But that’s good, because I need a lot of stuff. Like food, clothing, um, soap. Toothpaste—do you have—?”
“Aha. I see why Lism got exasperated. Let us take a moment to breathe, Miss Erin.”
Krshia cut Erin off with a friendly smile and a raised finger. She gestured Erin onto a stool.
“I am not gifted with perfect memory via Skill or otherwise. Let us make a proper list, and I will be able to see what you want, yes? It will take time, but we shall be more organized than me fetching this or that.”
Erin nodded, impressed by the decision-making. It made her feel a bit silly for not having a list herself, not that she had any paper. But her mom would have had a grocery list.
Her mom. Erin’s mind caught at the idea, but she pushed it down and focused on the Gnoll. Krshia bared her teeth at her again, but Erin was pretty sure it was a smile. A toothy smile, but the Gnoll was inviting.
“I will give you a fair price. Just as I said. I hail from the Silverfang Tribe, far to the south. The Great Plains of Izril. Have you heard of us?”
“Um. No. A tribe, huh? What does Silverfang do?”
“Oh, we are fine [Traders], but we also mine silver and do much with it. I have not been home in nearly a decade, but you may find many Gnolls in Liscor are Silverfangs. Sit, sit! Ah, here is some parchment. Now, tell me what you need. And then I will have your goods delivered rather than make you pay for a bag.”
She growled derisively, and Erin realized this was another way she might have been ripped off by Lism. The young woman blinked.
“Delivered? You do deliveries?”
Krshia laughed.
“Of course. Did you think many would carry off bags of flour as you did? It is too hard. No; the stupid shopkeeper Lism, fur sheddings that he is, didn’t tell you and gave you the bag on purpose. But then again—have you never had a Street Runner deliver anything? It may be a bit more for somewhere outside Liscor, but I know a few Street Runners who will do it.”
Erin glanced over at Lism’s distant shop. He was still screaming at his store and his nephew. It looked like Olesm was recreating the game they’d played on another chess board. Erin had already bought the board she’d won on.
“I feel bad about that, actually.”
“Bad?”
Krshia stared at Erin in surprise and then laughed again.
“Humans are strange. He would not give you the same if he were in your place; he surely would not.”
Erin shrugged.
“Still, it’s not nice. And the law should be equal for everyone.”
Again, Krshia stared at Erin. Erin shifted uncomfortably.
“Well, that’s what I was always taught. Plus, I bullied Olesm a bit.”
The Gnoll shook her head, but not in confusion so much as…a kind of amused gratification.
“That is a viewpoint I have not often heard since coming to Liscor. So, you truly knew what you were doing, but you pretended to be humble and baited him into that game. Cleverer still!”
Erin ducked her head.
“I didn’t know he was going to challenge me to chess! That was a lucky coincidence. I just—happen to be really good at it.”
“Hm. How good is ‘really good?’ Olesm may be young, but he is considered the best player in Liscor sheerly by how much he plays. From how you speak—it sounds like you made a choice to ‘bully’ him. If he were a Level 20 [Warrior], say, what would you be?”
The question caught Erin off-guard as Krshia produced a tub of what might have been toothpaste—and a brush. She offered Erin a choice between mint and lemon, and Erin pointed at the lemon.
“I, uh—well, I dunno. If he’s Level 20…I’d be Level 60?”
Krshia nearly tripped and caught herself and turned to stare at Erin. Instantly, Erin felt like she’d made a mistake.
“Is that off?”
“If you say it’s so—so you could beat him one-handed, eh? Blindfolded, even? What did you want? Soap? I have a few from the [Alchemist]. But to wash the body…no, this is hair conditioner for Gnolls. I don’t think you need quite this much. Scale cream…I will have someone find it.”
Erin saw Krshia glancing her way as she produced a bar of soap. The [Innkeeper] fidgeted. She knew it sounded like bragging, but—she coughed into her hand.
“Er…I might be able to beat him blindfolded.”
At this, Krshia actually stopped and gave Erin a look that said she didn’t believe her. Erin raised her hands.
“Sorry! I know it sounds like I’m blowing smoke, but you can play chess blindfolded if you know the pieces. He’s a talented…rookie. But he doesn’t know any chess openings, and I’ve played since I was a kid.”
“Since you were a child. Hrr. Now that’s…”
Krshia’s eyes sharpened, and Erin fidgeted, but the Gnoll smiled in an incomprehensible way. She walked over and tapped one of the earrings she had. Erin noticed it was set with a beautiful bit of quartz which was glowing a bright blue. Wait…hadn’t it been clear just now?
“Fascinating. This truth-stone earring says you are telling the truth. So I believe you.”
“Wh—truth stones? That’s what that thing is? I’ve never seen something like that! Is it magic?”
Krshia looked amused. Then she frowned as the blue glow grew brighter.
“Really? Not once? I…have never seen a truth stone before either.”
At that, the stone turned a murky red color, and the Gnoll poked it a few times, looking mystified.
“So itis working. Tribes! Well, I suppose…they’re not the most common, and it is an expensive item. More gold than you have, Miss Erin. Not that I won’t sell it to you if you have, er, forty-eight more pieces.”
As she did not, Erin changed the subject, but she noticed Krshia glancing at the earring in confusion more than once.
“So. These deliveries…how do they work?”
Krshia smiled. She pointed to a small wooden bowl filled with brightly painted wooden tokens. Circular, with little markings on them in the unknown script. Erin looked at them and saw each had an intricate little design of red and gold that made up a pattern around the edge. The center was filled with some words and a symbol. It looked a bit like…a foot? A stylized, clawed foot like Relc’s.
“Don’t tell me you’ve never seen a Runner’s Guild Seal before? Hah—maybe not Drake ones? Youhaven’t? Well then…they are for Runners. When I give you one, I will keep its twin, yes? Then, when a Runner delivers your goods, you will give him the Seal you have, and then I will know my goods have been delivered. It is simple.”
Erin picked up one of the pieces of wood.
“Runner’s Guild? So you’re saying it’s like a postal service?”
“A what?”
“Um. A delivery service?”
“That is what I have said, Erin Solstice.”
Erin blushed while Krshia grinned toothily at her and laughed.
“Right, sorry. I just haven’t ever heard of these Runners before. What do they do, besides make deliveries?”
Krshia gave her a long look and snuck another quick look at the blue earring. She seemed to be checking whether Erin was making fun of her.
“Runners run. They are quick ones, those who can run long distances to earn money. Sometimes they deliver letters, other times valuable things. Goods, yes? Magical items, messages that must only be spoken to one person. Such are expensive requests though. Only the best carry such things. Most just deliver goods very cheaply. I can call one and have all that you buy delivered to your inn for a good price.”
Erin thought she knew what Krshia was talking about. In the bustling city, hadn’t she seen a few Gnolls and Drakes racing about faster than everyone else? Krshia nodded when she mentioned seeing them.
“That would be a Street Runner. If you were living far away, I would call for a City Runner. For a long journey, perhaps to another continent, or in a dangerous spot, or if I needed the fastest in the world, I would pay for a Courier—and spend a fortune on the delivery!”
That sounded good, but Erin had learned skepticism here.
“What’s a good price?”
“It is the broken inn a few miles east of here, yes?”
Erin nodded. Krshia scratched her chin.
“…Four silver coins. Not a small price. If it were the city, it would be one, or maybe coppers for a small delivery. But it is far, yes? And if it is heavy and monsters lurk about, the price goes up. You are lucky the Goblins are scarce and the Hollowstone Deceivers do not travel this late in the season. So I advise you to buy alot and have the delivery done once, yes?”
Erin thought about that. It sounded really good. Better than carrying anything herself.
“I like it.”
Krshia grinned at her again. This time, Erin grinned back using all of her teeth.
“I knew I liked you for a reason. Then tell me what you want, and let us not waste the light, eh?”
“Sounds good to me.”
——
Later that evening, Erin sat in her inn and felt at her money pouch. It was much lighter now, but she felt a lot better about it. She felt a lot better about life, actually.
She had fresh clothes on, and she no longer smelled of…well, she no longer smelled. Instead, her skin had been bathed in an orange-y scent from the soap she’d used. And lemon toothpaste made her mouth feel fresh.And she hadn’t had to dodge fish in the stream while bathing either. 
The day had been full of busy things, and none of them had been entirely bad. After she’d bought all of the goods she needed from Krshia, and even haggled a bit over the price, the Gnoll had shown her to the bath house to have a proper wash. Then Erin had gone back to her inn, eaten the rest of the pasta, and she was now enjoying a minor food coma as she sat in a chair in her inn.
Erin played with one of the chess pieces on the table. She’d carried the chess board and a few essential items like soap with her back to the inn. She hadn’t wanted to let the chess board go. It was incredible, really. Chess? In a world like this? Actually, it made sense, but Erin was still amazed. She had to keep touching the pieces to make sure they were real.
But she had to focus. Erin dragged her mind back on track. Krshia told her the Runner would deliver her stuff tomorrow at some point. Until then, she could clean up the inn a bit. Or maybe play a game against herself. That was fun too. It was just—
Erin stared down at the chess board. She murmured to herself.
“Knight to D4. Pawn to E3.”
Suddenly, her good feeling vanished. Erin felt cold. The food in her stomach was dead weight instead of comfort, and she felt sick. Her hands shook as she put the pieces back on the table. Everything was better. It really was. But…
—If she closed her eyes, Erin could still see a Goblin lying on the ground next to her. If she opened her hands, she could still feel the dead weight between her palms.
Erin moved a pawn up and took the knight. She stared at the pieces on the board.
“It’s kill or be killed in this world, after all.”
She put her head in her hands and rubbed at her eyes. Yes. That was what she’d learned. And she hated it. All of the good that had come to her seemed like it had been built on the bad.
The bad. The dead. A game of chess on a pile of corpses. Erin stared at the chess board.
She was good at chess. She liked chess. She’d grown up playing chess and other games like that, despite the fact that girls weren’t common in chess tournaments. Chess had been fun to her until she’d grown up and realized she’d never become a Grandmaster herself. She was good, but not great. But chess had still been her hobby. Chess was fun. It was about outwitting the opponent, about using strategy—
It wasn’t at all like killing someone.
Erin stared at her hands. They were quivering. She could still feel them burning. It was all a game, though, wasn’t it? A game with levels and classes. A game like chess.
“It’s just a game. Just a game?”
Erin stared at the board. Pieces. If she thought about it like that, then death seemed to matter less. She’d done the right thing. She’d defended herself, killed the monster.
Killed the monster.
She stared down at the two dead Goblins. They were so small. Like children. And they had family. Friends. Those who loved them.
The ragged Goblin. The ones hiding outside her inn, scrawny and afraid. They were the enemy too, if she played the game like chess. The right thing to do would be to hunt them down and kill them. That was how all games worked.
That was how you played chess.
Erin sat up. She remembered the Goblin’s hand in hers, the feeling of his skin. She remembered his smile. She remembered laughing.
And then she understood. Erin put her hand underneath the chess board and flipped it off the table. Both white and black pieces soared into the air and clattered against the floor.
Erin stood up.
“I remember why I got bored of chess. There’s only one winner and one loser. The best game for both players is a draw.”
She walked over to the door and yanked it open. Then she stopped and turned. She raised her middle finger and flipped off the chess board a second time.
“I’ll make my own rules. And anyone that doesn’t like it can go to hell.”
The door slammed shut as Erin walked out. A few minutes later, she rushed back into the inn and carefully put all the pieces back onto the chess board.
“Still a great game, though. Don’t take it personally. Let me just get a quick snack for the road. And I need some soap. Proper hygiene and all that. Where did I put the soap? Soap, soap, soap…I should really organize all this stuff. Maybe tomorrow.”
Then she was gone, running down to the city. There was still plenty of daylight left in the sky. And she had one more thing left to do. The most important thing of all.
——
The sun was setting over the grassland when the young woman returned to the inn. She stopped, again, and saw a streak of purple grass blowing as the cool winds came down across the rolling hills and valleys. Shadows crept and lengthened across the old inn. They should have exposed cracks, but as she looked up, the darkness seemed to hide the age of the building, all the little imperfections and signs of age.
Like this—it looked like what it had been in its heyday, a lone building set against the fading crimson sky, visible for miles away if it were lit up from the inside.
Erin Solstice slowly put down her burden. Her arms hurt, and she regretted not adding this to the delivery, but she had been too excited to wait. Krshia had humored her and even helped Erin buy what she wanted.
She was carrying a bucket filled with nails, a brush, and even a few slats of straight wood planks. And a hammer. It was quite heavy, and the young woman muttered and rubbed at her aching shoulders.
However, she eventually reached the inn’s door and set down her burden. Then she gazed up.
The shadowy sign was long-since faded. The little one that said ‘open’ and ‘closed’ hung below some façade, some…signboard above the doorway that had once been this inn’s name.
Even if she had been able to pick out the letters, Erin felt it was in that other language. She did feel guilty, but she got to work as she set her tools down. Then she pulled something out of her pocket and grimaced.
“Aw. The water.”
She had a packet of what looked, at first, to be plain white dust. And some black charcoal or other powder. But when Erin found some water and filled another bucket with it, the dust turned the water white, and the second turned another black.
Powdered paint. Very handy, and it beat hauling a bucket ofpaint back all this way. Erin mixed up both, then dipped her brush into the first bucket. She gave the inn’s signboard a coating and hoped it dried as fast as Krshia claimed.
The inn lost its name quickly as Erin stood on a chair she propped on top of a table she’d dragged outside. She felt a pang, but it had lost that name long ago, with its customers and owner. It needed a new one, especially if she were to stay here.
It felt…reverential, almost. The girl picked up the bucket of black paint and the brush and thought a second. She dipped the brush in the black paint and painted a broad stroke on the wide plaque above the entranceway. She wrote the beginning of a letter, frowned at it, and then cursed and shouted obscenities and had to cover it all up with white paint again.
It was hard to write properly, and it took her several tries as the daylight escaped the world to finish her sign. Numerous coats of paint to cover her mistakes. Multiple tools. A paint-scraping knife to get rid of the paint when it became too thick. A hammer to hit things while she vented her frustrations.
But eventually, the sign was done. The young woman sighed in relief and then picked up the pieces of wood she brought with her. This was easier, so she only took the paintbrush and wrote on it briefly. Then, she planted the pieces of wood in the ground and drove the sign down with the hammer a few times.
By now, it was dark. So dark that Erin was yawning, hungry, and covered with paint. In defiance of any good painter or craftswomanship at all, she left the tools on the ground where they lay. Even the paint brush in the bucket.
“Food. I hate painting.”
The paint was already drying, and the sign and plaque were done. The lettering was crisp and clear, and if any travellers had been present, the words would have caught the eye.
But there weren’t any travellers. The inn was long-deserted, and no visitors had come here for a long time.
Yet—it didn’t matter. The inn’s shuttered windows began to glow with a bit of light. As they did, a few people stopped outside the inn. Not guests. Not yet.
Just…a young [Necromancer], rubbing at his rumbling stomach and glancing up at the new sign. He raised his brows and inspected the smaller sign. He recoiled—shook his head, and gave the inn a strange look.
Almost as strange as the smallest Goblin, peeking at the inn in the darkness. Her night vision was good, but even so, she had to hurry forwards when he left and puzzle out each word in the Human’s language one by one. She too stared and hurried away, just as confused.
It didn’t matter. The lack of guests didn’t matter. The sign was what mattered. The new name of the inn and the message mattered. They were written, now there to stay. As was the young woman.
So, as Erin Solstice slept, the twin moons rose, and the night sky began to brighten. The moonlight from the two moons, a pale blue and a faint green, caught the inn’s sign. The letters spelled out the new name:
The Wandering Inn
Next to the inn, a large sign was hammered into the earth by the door. It read:
“No Killing Goblins.”
Thus began the story of The Wandering Inn.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:35:19)
No leaving typos. Wait no the opposite of that.
Typos here
Robb (2023-03-06T01:02:41)
‘Well, that’s what I was always taught’
Always’ve been taught, perhaps?
Kai (2023-03-07T19:20:02)
Erin is not an English teacher or linguist lol, she’s never gonna have perfect grammar :P
Thari prasad (2023-03-08T18:40:52)
Goosbumps
Eric (2023-03-08T19:22:55)
“I, uh—well, I dunno. If he’s Level 20…I’d be Level 60?”
Close, but modest.
MurrayDemSkull (2023-03-11T04:53:27)
And end scene. That’s masterfully done. Love this story!
juppie (2023-03-11T19:16:09)
Klb makes a point of never outright lying right?
“—Of course, these games are quite rare outside of your home nation, Miss Solstice. I doubt they would have permeated to Izril yet. I have heard of and observed Shogi before.”
Remove the “I have heard of and observed Shogi before.” part and the sentence still works just as well, but is no longer a lie.
HK-42 (2023-03-12T02:43:43)
“I really shouldn’t have played like that as well against a rooki-another player.”
I thought this was worded awkwardly, depending on what is meant it might be better to say:
”I really shouldn’t have played like that against a”
or
“I really shouldn’t have played that well against a”
Grault (2023-03-15T00:23:35)
Huh. I was wondering when the inn would start wandering.
Sparsebeard (2023-06-18T20:46:01)
Wow, I didn’t have time to keep up with the current chapters for something like a year (I’m at about half of book 8). I had a free weekend so I thought let’s read a few chapters, I clicked on topwebfiction link which brought me to chapter 1 and saw there was a rewritten version of book 1…
I didn’t expect it to be so great! Faithful to the plot but fleshing out so many characters and their motivations from the start. Truly shows how much Pirate has grown as a writer and reminds me why The Wandering Inn might be my favorite fiction ever.
Still baffles me how insanely dedicated to the story the author is to do a full re-write when considering the complexity of the universe.
Sam (2023-07-01T11:18:05)
I don’t understand why people say that it’s difficult to get into, I got sucked ten chapters in. This is a wonderful tale.
Muhammad (2023-07-12T11:30:37)
And so it begins…
greycat (2023-07-16T23:21:37)
This is a rewritten book 1.  The original book 1 lacked a lot of the finesse you’re seeing now.  The events are the same, but the prose is much better, and the non-Erin characters are really brought to life much earlier.
Salamander (2023-08-10T13:20:32)
Woo, things are looking up for Erin!
Ray (2023-10-18T17:58:38)
“If it were the city, it would be one, or maybe coppers for a small delivery.”
…or maybe ___ coppers ?
It seems like you might have meant to have a specific quantity of coppers there.
Love your work btw!
Otaku Demon (2024-02-16T15:57:27)
“Next to the inn, a large sign was hammered into the earth by the door. It read:
“No Killing Goblins.”
Thus began the story of The Wandering Inn.”
When I first started to read the novel this moment means little, but now it’s means so much more than I could describe. The joy, honour, sadness and grief,… And it started with that sign.
Emibook (2024-03-19T18:43:48)
This is my first time reading this amazing story. The last 4 lines gave me goosebumps. I am so excited for the rest of this story. I can’t wait.
Blaz (2024-03-19T19:41:49)
The story has been great so far
dibjuv (2024-04-22T22:01:28)
Shogi might exist in Drath so Klb could have heard of it
Jack (2024-09-01T04:24:21)
I got chills
Stacy (2024-09-23T21:45:46)
The Wandering Inn a chill ran down my spine when I`ve read that. I still hope though does the Inn in fact wanders.. like through magic or smth? Like that it actually moves.. but I’ll see. :)
ThePegNok (2025-01-08T16:05:20)
First time reader, and I absolutely adore the reversal of her wanting to write in chalk “no goblins allowed” and now having a sign with “No killing goblins”. Honestly, I’m adoring this story already. And a lot.
Night Owl (2025-02-07T17:36:37)
Brilliant love this stroy already, and an amazing world building as it seems for now

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.21
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-21/

The inn. A place for questing adventurers, drinking, solace, and even temporary, messy love. Or just lust. In any good tavern, you can find at least one mysterious figure in the shadows ready to spout off cryptic messages of doom. No pub worthy of the name wouldn’t have the potential for indiscriminate violence simmering in the air, either.
Inns attract crowds. Thus, an innkeeper must be constantly busy. It’s a demanding job that often requires more than one barmaid or bartender—barboy being a seldom-used term that only dictionary aficionados employ.
Erin Solstice sat in her inn and waited for the crowds to come pouring through the door. Any second now. She’d be fighting them off with burning oil and kitchen knives. Any moment. They were probably just waiting until nightfall.
——
Two nights later, Erin had to concede that being an innkeeper was harder than it looked. And it looked really hard.
“What good is owning an inn without customers?”
Erin sighed and leaned back in her chair. She eyed the gleaming wooden floor and stout wooden door and wondered whether it was worth cleaning them again. But no, she’d dusted and polished every available surface, and she had enough food in the kitchen for a small army.
What she didn’t have was money or people willing to spend money. And it occurred to her, belatedly, that if you had food, there was a definite time limit on how long you had until it went bad—and then you’d wasted your money.
“Two days.”
Erin put her head in her hands glumly. Two days since she’d painted her sign and named the inn. Two days, and her only customers were the three terrors that plagued her waking nightmares.
Relc, Klbkch, and Pisces. They were all horrible customers. Each one was fine on his own—well, Pisces was annoying no matter what—but as patrons, they had extremely objectionable flaws. Even Klbkch.
Especially Klbkch.
It wasn’t that they were annoying, per se, but…no, they were annoying. Erin gritted her teeth. She wished the Goblins would stop by for a change of pace. At least they were clean, quiet, and finished everything on their plate.
Well, Relc always finished everything on his plate. So did the other two, but in Relc’s case, he tended to spread the contents of his plate on the table and the floor. How hard was it to use a knife and fork?
And the one who did use a knife and fork never paid for anything. Ever. Erin felt like she was running a soup kitchen every time she fed Pisces.
As for Klbkch, that…that…
“That lying, pasta-eating, snake-ant jerk!”
Erin slapped the table. She was especially mad at him. How could he betray her expectations like that?
She’d been happy to feed him pasta all night long. Happy that was, until Pisces and Relc told her that Antinium couldn’t handle bread or pasta that well. They were all naturally gluten-intolerant. Eating pasta was about as fun for Klbkch as poking his tongue with a knife. If he had a tongue.
Pasta wasn’t technically poison for him, but it made Klbkch lethargic and did nasty things to his digestion. Either way, he’d clearly been buying and eating her food just to support her.
The nerve. Thegall of that bug. Ants were bugs, right?
When she’d found out about Klbkch’s aversion to pasta, she’d gotten into a huge fight with him. Or rather, she’d gotten mad and he’d apologized repeatedly. Ever since then, Erin had let him buy blue fruit juice or blue fruits, but no more pasta. The trouble with that was that Erin lost out on one of her major sources of income, as Relc visited every other day and Pisces came by too frequently.
“Another night without customers.”
Erin groaned to herself as she stared at her inn. Then she got up, found a mug, and mechanically wiped it with a clean piece of cloth. Not because it was dirty; it just felt like an innkeeper-y thing to do. And she was bored.
“What I wouldn’t give for one customer.”
Two tables over, Pisces looked up from his bowl of onion and sausage soup.
“I am right here, you know.”
Erin glared at him. Pisces was, as always, camped at his table, which meant that he somehow occupied theentire table. Not that he stretched out or lay across multiple chairs, but he seemed to occupy too much space. 
His stained ‘white’ robes had left another trail of detritus when he’d come in, and he’d actually removed one of his worn boots to inspect a sock with holes in it. Erin stared at a pale, pink toe and then at Pisces. He waggled the toe at her along with one eyebrow and had the nerve to look offended.
“I meant apaying, nice customer.”
The young man sniffed and drank the last dregs from his bowl. The one positive aspect about the mage—if you could call it that—was that he ate like a starving wolverine.
“I believe there is a lovely tradition known as a ‘tab.’ Rest assured, I will make sufficient payment to you in time, good mistress. Although, I must say you could stand to improve the variety of your dishes. Pasta and soup are all very well, but I trust you do know there are other types of food in the world?”
Erin ground her teeth together. She pointed at the door.
“Out.”
Pisces stood with offended dignity and brushed off his dirty robe. He offered Erin a bow that was sardonic without being offensive enough for a thumping.
“Your soup was most adequate. However, I would advise you to add more seasonings to combat the bland taste.”
Erin opened her mouth, but he was already halfway out the door. She watched it close…but not all the way. The door hung about a foot open as Pisces ambled off. This time, Erin punched the table.
After she’d closed and bolted the new door Klbkch had helped her install, Erin tasted the cold soup and made a face. She stomped over to her shelves and looked for a bag of salt.
Cooking was harder than it looked. And sadly, while Erin could make several dishes thanks to her Skill, there wasn’t really any point if no one but Pisces was going to eat it. Today, she’d tried out soup, and she had half a pot still sitting in the kitchen. She’d have to wait for Relc to come by tomorrow to finish it all.
Erin sighed and sat down at her table. It was her favorite table, the second one near the bar. It was in the best condition, and she would nap with her head resting on the table or in the kitchen, on the floor. True, she could have built a more formal sleeping spot or done something about the second floor, but she was out of money for things like mattresses and pillows. For now, she slept. Her life wasn’t bad. She’d survived Goblins and actually started running a business. She just wished—
She just wished things would start going her way.
——
The next day Erin woke up, she woke up tired. Very tired. And that was strange, because Erin had gotten a good night’s sleep. Or so she’d thought.
As Erin shifted to get up, she felt uncomfortable. She looked down at her clothes. She was wearing a variation of a t-shirt and pants she’d custom-ordered from one of the Gnolls that Krshia had introduced her to.
Most Drakes went for an ancient-Greek-style toga or robe look, and their clothes were long and free-flowing. Some of them wore sarongs, but Erin was pretty sure it was only the females.
On the other hand, Gnolls wore minimal attire, usually just enough to cover their furry parts, which weren’t visible in the first place. And while Erin was fine with that look, she wasn’t too keen on wearing just a thong and breast band in public. Hence, her clothes.
The fabric was a rougher, sturdier type of cloth than Erin would have liked, but it wasn’t that uncomfortable. She’d slept in it fine just the other day. So why was it suddenly rubbing against her down…there…?
Erin looked down and began praying under her breath. She closed her eyes. Did she have to go to the bathroom? No. Nope. Not at all. So then why was she leaking…?
“Oh. My. God. This isnot okay!”
The wetness in the crotch of her pants spread even as Erin looked down. She began to swear even as she jumped up and ran for some clean clothes. It couldn’t be happening. But it was. How had she forgotten?
Her period. She was on her damn period. 
The entire moment came as a huge shock to Erin. Not her monthlies. Rather—that she had missed the signs. She didn’t have the most dramatic signals, but Erin could normally count down the days in her head even if she didn’t keep exact track, and she could tell when her body was about to argue with her.
…Normally. But Erin had missed any normal signs in the stress and trauma of fighting for her life. Which meant she was also completely flat-footed because—she had to be honest—
This was not a problem she equated with living in a world of magic and monsters.Of all the things to deal with—!
Erin went to the shopping bag where she’d neatly stored many of the items she’d bought and began tearing through it, tossing items aside. Towels. She had to have towels somewhere in here.
There. Erin grabbed them and a fresh pair of pants. She walked back into the common room and hesitated. Like hell she was going to change in here or in the kitchen. She went upstairs.
As Erin switched her pants and wiped away the mess, she wondered what cruel twist of fate had dumped her in this fantasy world—yet still gave her the miracle of life every month.
“I’ve never heard of video game characters dealing with this! How do you expect Lara Croft to climb mountains with a giant frickin’ diaper in her pants? I’d love to see Leia fighting stormtroopers on her cycle!”
Erin slammed downstairs and threw her pants and the bloody towel on the ground. The other one she took to the kitchen and cut in half. Then she shoved it down her pants.
“Rough.”
The towels werenot meant for use in the way she was using them. Erin shuddered. This was a nightmare. She had to get relief. And by relief, she meant tampons.
And that was another chilling thought, because Erin was pretty sure tampons never existed in medieval times. But—they had pads, right? Women existed back in the Dark Ages, even if they were oppressed. And Liscor wasn’tthat primitive. So they had to have pads. They had to.
“Please, God, if you’re there. Or the Buddha. I’ll pray to anyone. Just please don’t make me wear a diaper.”
She wasn’t even sure if they had diapers. She hadn’t seen many baby Drakes while walking in the city, and they stayed away from the scary Human in any case.
Erin went for the door and hesitated. She felt like she was wearing a scratchy diaper, but it couldn’t be helped. She felt at her pocket and then went to her discarded pants and pulled out a very thin coin pouch. She didn’t have much money, but it was probably enough.
Her bloody pants and towel were another issue. Erin stared at them and then kicked them under the table. Then she opened the door andslammed it behind her. Her temper was already bad when she left her inn.
After the forty minutes it took to get to Liscor at a quick pace, Erin’s mood had gone from bad to thunderous. The towel in her pantschafed. And her period was heavy. She wanted to kill everything. And that was before she tripped on a rock.
——
Erin marched into Liscor through the eastern gates. Actually, she stormed through the gates. In actual fact, she practically charged through them.
The Drake on duty, the same yellow one she’d seen several times before, opened his mouth to make a snippy comment. Erin stared at him as she went past. He shut up.
——
Another obstacle got in her way before she got to the market street. Olesm appeared out of nowhere, holding a box in his scaly hands.
“Good day, Miss Solstice. What a coincidence running into you here.”
Erin gritted her teeth. Her abdomen was cramping up. This was a bad one.
“Not now, Olesm.”
He ducked his head, but kept pace with her.
“I understand this might be a bad moment, but I was wondering if you would be free later to play a game of—”
Erin turned her head as she stomped past him. Olesm swallowed the words he’d been about to say. She left him behind and kept moving down the street. Some Gnolls snarled at her when she walked in front of them. This time, she snarled back.
——
“Pads.”
Krshia Silverfang looked up from her pile of copper and silver coins. She sniffed the air, frowned, and glanced up. Just like before, she was operating her stall in a new part of Market Street.
Erin had caught her setting up in the morning; the Gnoll woman was carefully laying out gemstone brooches made of silver on some fine cloth, like a jeweler. She smiled, but Erin was in no mood for pleasantries.
“Yes, Erin Solstice?”
Erin took a deep breath. She couldn’t get mad. Not now, when her goal was so close.
“Pads. I want to buy pads. Or tampons, if you guys actually have those.”
The Gnoll shopkeeper was sitting down, but her head was almost higher than Erin’s. She blinked at Erin.
“What are these pads you speak of? Are they bandages?”
She sniffed the air again, and Erin’s blood froze. She felt the earth beneath her begin to open and a choir of undead hands reach up to pull her into the fiery pits of hell.
“Please tell me you’re joking.”
Bits of fur flew into the air as Krshia shook her head.
“Apologies. It is shedding season. Why are you so concerned, Erin Solstice? And—have you cut yourself? Hrr. It’s not the same as a wound, though? Strange.”
A third time she sniffed, and Erin realized—she wassmelling—the young woman turned crimson. Erin leaned forwards and whispered loudly to Krshia.
“I’mbleeding. I need pads. Cloth pads, now.”
“Bleeding? Where?”
Maybe the Gnoll really was messing with her, or she didn’t have the same sense of public decency Erin did. Either way, Erin leaned forwards and whispered the location and issue in Krshia’s ear.
The Gnoll shrugged.
“Is it not fine?”
Erin gaped at her. Krshia scratched the fur around her neck, looking unconcerned.
“It is only liquid, yes? And all who smell you will know either way. Why waste good cloth?”
Erin stared at her. Krshia stopped scratching.
“What?”
“Are you messing with me? Because if you are, I’m not in the mood for it.”
“I would not tease a young one like you when you stink of sweat and blood.”
Krshia looked mildly offended. Erin rubbed at her eyes and crossed her legs.
“Sorry. It’s just—you can smell that?Seriously? No, don’t tell me. I really don’t want to know. Don’t Gnolls have periods too?”
The Gnoll in question tilted her head slightly and made a confused face.
“Periods?”
“The menstrual cycle. You know, that time of the month when you donate blood. When Aunt Flo comes to town. Shark week. The Crimson Tide. Parting the Red Sea!”
Krshia blinked at her. Erin felt her voice growing louder.
“You know! Riding the cotton pony! It’s that thing ladies have! The waterfalls of hell! The blood baptism! The get-out-of-swim-class card! The proof of womanhood! Thepart of the month where blood comes out of your—”
——
Erin squatted on the ground, head buried in her arms. The other shoppers stared at her. The other shopkeepers stared at her. Half of them looked sympathetic. The other half looked disgusted. The children were torn between impressed and horrified.
She had screamed a very vivid description out loud to a crowded street. Mostly because neither Krshia nor the Drakes nor anyone else had seemed toget the most basic part of biology for a young woman. For the guys, that was to be expected, but Drakes and Gnolls?
A heavy, furry hand patted Erin on the shoulder. Erin looked up as Krshia stepped around her counter and smiled gently down at her. The Gnoll womanhmmed and chose her words carefully.
“Humans have very strange bodies, yes?”
“…Yes.”
Erin really hadn’t meant to shout.
“I really didn’t mean to shout.”
“It is nothing.”
Krshia flicked her fingers dismissively. She glanced at the other people on Market Street. Erin looked up and saw Lism gagging at his stall. Krshia gave him a dismissive glance.
“Shouting is good. Almost as good as howling, but we are forbidden to do that unless it is a full moon. But I am sorry. Gnolls do not have your periods, nor do we let our blood each month.”
“So you don’t have anything like that?”
The Gnoll paused. She tapped her lips with one finger and nodded.
“The blood. It is for mating, yes? We do have a similar time. All those who still are able to bear children, we go into a heat. It is called estrus, but it happens only once or twice a year. It is the time when we mate.”
Erin looked up at her.
“Does it hurt?”
Krshia scratched one ear and shook her head. More fur flew into the air.
“It is enjoyable. Some look forwards to it. It is a time to have sex and to bear children, and so we are happy when it comes to us. There are issues—monthly bleeding is not one of them.”
Erin pointed a shaking finger at Krshia.
“I hate you so much right now I can’t even explain.”
The Gnoll grinned at her, but without any malice.
“I am sorry for your plight. But I have no smooth cloths. But I do have these. These are wool; not finely woven, but strong. Would you like a few?”
Erin looked at the rough fabric offered to her and shuddered.
“Do you have any idea—no. Just please, please tell me there’s someone who sells what I need in the city.”
Again, Krshia scratched her head. Erin wondered if she had fleas.
“Hm. No.”
“No?”
“We Gnolls need no padding. And the Drake folk and Antinium, they need none either. Humans are rare here, so I would not think any padding you wish for exists in any store.”
The blood drained from Erin’s face. She stared open-mouthed at the shopkeeper, who looked concerned at her expression.
“Is it so bad?”
“I—I’m going to die.”
“Not from so little blood, I think. But I have a thought.”
Erin latched onto the ray of hope instantly.
“Yes? Tell me. What’s your thought?”
“The Adventurer’s Guild. They have bandages. Many bandages. If you cannot stop this blood, they would be able to help more than I. And bandages are soft, yes?”
“Yes—yes they are.”
Erin was on her feet in an instant. She waddled away from the Gnoll and then stopped.
“Thanks. I, uh, gotta go. See you later.”
Bemused, the Gnoll watched Erin waddle awkwardly out of sight. She looked at a female Drake who was passing by her shop. She bared her teeth in a grin.
“Humans, eh?”
——
The cool wood counter of the reception desk in the Adventurer’s Guild felt good on Erin’s head. She rested her head there and wished she didn’t have to deal with the world.
“So you really have blood coming from down there? And it happens every month?”
“Yes.”
“That’s so weird.”
Erin groaned. She looked up at Selys, the helpful receptionist. She’d been grateful to find the female Drake was working today, but she really,really couldn’t deal with her innocent curiosity.
“I know. Everyone keeps telling me that. But please, do you have bandages? Thin,soft fabric?”
Selys nodded and pulled a drawer out. She fished out a roll of thin, white fabric and showed it to Erin.
“We’ve got lots, just in case there’s an emergency. How much do you need?”
“Lots.”
Erin said it glumly as she fished out her meager ration of coins. She tried to calculate how many rolls of bandages she’d need and how she’d turn them into a pad. She needed to buy food—but this was more important.
“I’m going to need enough for a week, maybe. And I need to use the bandages to make a pad. You know, to cover the area. And I change pads every few hours sometimes, so…”
Drakes didn’t have eyebrows, so Selys couldn’t raise them. But she widened her eyes and flicked her long tongue out.
“That’s expensive. And gross. Sorry, Erin, but I’m not sure you’ll have enough money for that. Bandages are cheap, but you’ll be using a lot if what you say is true. Again. Gross.”
“Tell me about it. On bad days back home, I used to use a ton of pads each day before I switched to tampons. And let me tell you,that was a psychological shift as well.”
Selys looked blank. Erin waved her hand. She wasn’t about to open that can of worms.
“Well, back on the topic of pads…why not make a few that you can re-use more than once?”
Erin looked up at Selys.
“What?”
“Well, doesn’t that make sense? If you’re going to make these pads dirty, why not rewash them rather than keep throwing them away like the ones you talk about.”
As she opened her mouth to reply, Erin’s brain froze. She tried to think of a response but she didn’t have any good one.
“Um. Uh, that’s—that’s actually a good idea. I heard they did that in developing countries but—okay. Okay, yeah. It’s gross, but yeah. How would I get one of those made?”
Selys smiled at Erin. There were still too many pointy teeth in the smile, but Erin was getting used to it.
“I’ve stitched up more than a few adventurers right here. I can make a few of these pads quite quickly if you want me to. I’ve got the Skill [Fast Stitching], so it won’t take more than a few minutes.”
Erin leaned across the counter and seized Selys by the clawed hand. The receptionist blinked at her in surprise.
“Oh, thank you, thank you,thank you.”
“It’s nothing. Really. I’ll start on this pad right away. How should it look?”
“Um. Sort of like this.”
Erin showed Selys as the other Drakehmmed and began layering the cloth bandage together. They’d just finished the basic design and Erin had opened her coin pouch when she heard a familiar growl from behind her.
Selys gulped, but Erin scowled. She turned around and looked up into the face of an irritated male Gnoll.
“Human. You still stink.”
“I’m not talking to you. Go away.”
He blinked at her, but Erin was already turning back to Selys. She felt a rough hand spin her around, and she nearly dropped her money. She narrowed her eyes up at the Gnoll.
“You stink of blood. I warned you last time—leave this place now.”
Erin felt her teeth grinding together. She clenched her jaw and looked up at the Gnoll. He was big and scary, but she was also pretty sure he wasn’t allowed to hit her. And even if he were, she was in a really bad mood. Unbidden, the thought occurred to her that she’d never figured out what [Bar Fighting] actually did.
“Do Ilook like I’m in the mood to be bullied?”
The male Gnollgrowled at her. Erin stared at him. She didn’t blink. She was really cramping up down below now, and the trickling sensation was not making anything better.
Her gaze locked with the Gnoll’s for a solid minute. He was looming over her, doing the classic male intimidation move. She was too angry and sore to care.
After another minute, the Gnoll’s ears suddenly flattened for a second. He whirled and walked away. Erin flipped him off with one hand and then turned back to Selys.
“Sorry. Where were we?”
The female Drake was staring at Erin with an open mouth. Erin stared back at her and then flashed a smile.
“Bully me once, shame on you. Bully me twice—I get mean. And violent.”
“I can see that. But I would have known it anyways. Terbore might growl at you, but we all heard about how you killed that Goblin Chieftain by yourself. That was some story.”
Erin’s smile slipped for a fraction of a second.
“Oh. Someone told you about that?”
“Oh yes.”
Selys nodded as she began stitching the bandages together with needle and thread. The claws that held the long needle flashed back and forth across the fabric at mesmerizing speed.
“Klbkch had to turn in the Goblin Chieftain’s head here. We all heard about how you killed it. That’s amazing, by the way—Klb says you don’t even have any levels in a fighting class. How’d you do it?”
“Um. I burned his face off.”
“Oh, are you a [Mage] then? I saw a Human one in town the other day, but apparently he’s a troublemaker and a thief.”
“No, no. I’m no mage. It’s just—I used a trick. And I nearly died. I bet Klbkch didn’t mention that.”
“He said you were wounded. Was it bad?”
“Very. He gave me a healing potion. Without that, I would have been a goner.”
Her hands paused in stitching as Selys stared at Erin.
“He gave you his Senior Guardsman’s healing potion? But that’sexpensive. You must have been badly injured if Klbkch gave you his potion.”
Erin shifted nervously.
“Are they—are they expensive? Those potions, I mean.”
“Very. At least, the ones I know the Watch issues to Senior Guardsmen.”
Selys nodded. She named the price, and it was Erin’s turn to gape.
“Well, it’s important that the Watch carries them in case someone gets hurt. They’re not supposed to use them unless someone’s really hurt, though. Like…citizens. And the potions the Senior Guardsmen carry are even stronger. They can heal most big injuries in a moment. Unless you lose an arm or a body part, you’ll be fine in moments.”
“Yeah. They are good.”
Erin poked at her stomach reflexively. She sighed. Another mark on her debt to Klbkch.
“I’m just glad it was only a Goblin Chieftain. If the rest of the Goblins had come after me, I would have been dead.”
“Oh, if it had been a Goblin raiding party, we’d have sent out the entire Watch to deal with them. I just don’t understand why a Chieftain would come after you. It doesn’t make sense.”
Erin blinked.
“A Goblin what now?”
“A Goblin raid. Haven’t you heard of them?”
“Uh. No…no I have not. We don’t have many Goblins where I come from.”
Selys sighed enviously as she finished the first pad and slid it over to Erin. The other girl felt at the soft fabric and smiled happily. Selys leaned over the counter, looking serious.
“You’re lucky. Goblins are a real problem around here. I mean, sure, the lone Goblin isn’t that dangerous. But they’re one of the few monster species that can level. That’s why we send out Senior Guardsmen and post bounties on Goblins to keep their numbers down. Before we get a Goblin Chieftain with high levels. Or a GoblinLord.”
Goblins could…level up? Right, she’d been told that. Erin blinked at Selys. And what was that about a Goblin Lord? But the entire idea nagged at her, so she lingered.
“So you guys kill Goblins all the time? What about Chieftains? Do you send adventurers after those guys?”
Erin didn’t know how she felt about that. Bad. But her sympathy only extended to the small Goblins, not the vicious, sadistic, big ones.
“Chieftains? Yes, but we have to be careful. Most Bronze-rank teams can’t survive an encounter with a strong one. Silver-ranks have to take on tribes—and there are some that even Gold-rank teams can’t handle.”
Selys shuddered. Erin frowned. As far as she could tell, Relc never seemed to worry about any number of Goblins.
“Why not?”
“It’s not that they’re stronger than the Watch. Relc, Klbkch, even some of the regular Watch are probably better fighters than Chieftains on a technical level. It’s just that they’re Hobgoblins—tough. And strong. And when they call their tribe, well, the average group of adventurers would get wiped out against that mob.”
“So you’re not sending adventurers out against a raiding party either, then?”
“Dead gods, no. If we hear about one of those, we form a hunting party and try to get rid of it right away. A raiding party can wipe out a village in an hour if we don’t get to it in time.”
“Nasty.”
“It is. Here’s another pad.”
“Thanks. Sorry I can’t pay you more—it’s just that I don’t have much money from this innkeeping thing.”
Selys waved her needle at Erin.
“Don’t apologize. I’m happy to help. But I’m afraid I could have warned you that innkeeping in that old inn isn’t a good idea.”
“Why not?”
“Well, what level are you? Ten? Twenty?”
“Nine.”
“See, that’s not too good. If you were in the city, I’d say you should get apprenticed to another [Innkeeper]until you’re at least Level 15. It might take a year or two, but then you’d have a few good skills to run your inn with. And I wouldn’t have an inn that far away from the city to begin with.”
“Yeah. No one comes by. Is it because I’m Human? Or is it too far to walk?”
Another pad finished, Selys picked up the roll of bandages and cut off more for the last pad. She lined the backing with a stiffer cloth and then sewed layers of the soft bandage on top.
“Both, I’d say. It’s dangerous to come out that far—well, not too dangerous, but it’s a bit of a deterrent. Your being Human isn’t bad, but…”
“But…?”
“Well, I’ve heard Relc talking in bars. He says you make pasta. Is…is that all you sell?”
Erin squirmed in place. Her mother had offered to teach her how to cook more, but…Erin had often excused herself from dinner help, or washing the dishes, on the pretext of chess games. It was coming back to bite her now.
“Um. Yeah. I can make other things. I’ve got [Basic Cooking], but—what’s wrong?”
Selys was shaking her head as she sewed. Erin was envious of her speed and also her scaled hands. Whenever the Drake missed her cloth or stabbed one of her fingers, the needle hit her scales rather than soft, vulnerable flesh.
“I don’t want to be rude, Erin, but that’s not too impressive. All cooks and chefs have [Basic Cooking] as a skill. Some even have [Advanced Cooking].”
“Oh. And, uh, I guess pasta isn’t that interesting.”
Selys kindly didn’t respond to that statement.
“You could make other things, but there are a lot of good inns in the city. And we get recipes from the Human cities up north all the time. Even if you sold a new dish, someone would copy it the next night.”
Erin’s face fell. Selys looked unhappy, but went on.
“Anyways, no one will make the journey if all you’re selling is pasta. I’m sorry.”
Erin groaned as she thumped her head back against the counter. That helped explain her lack of business. And it was sadly obvious. Erin just—hadn’t ever run a restaurant or inn before!
Her regular clients might not mind eating the same dishes, but everyone else would. She guessed she should be grateful for her regulars, thinking of it that way.
Relc would probably eat anything he could swallow, Pisces would eat anything he could steal, and Klbkch would eat anything she put in front of him. TheGoblins were probably pickier eaters than her clientele.
The last pad done, Selys slid it over to Erin. The young woman gratefully accepted them and felt them carefully. They were thick, but not so much that they’d be uncomfortable wearing. More importantly, they were made of strong materials, and she was sure she’d be able to wash and use them again.
“You have no idea how much this means to me. Thank you so much.”
The Drake smiled at her. Erin smiled back.
“Don’t mention it. And good luck with your innkeeping. I’m sorry I had to say it like that, but—”
“No, you’re right. I’ll…do some thinking about it. But right now—”
Erin was edging away from the counter.
“Uh, where’s your bathroom?”
——
The new pad Erin was wearing did not chafe like the towel. Which was exceptionally fortunate, because her skin was raw and still sore. It made the walk back to her inn less fun than normal, but at least the crisis was averted.
“Just in time for a new crisis.”
Erin grumbled to herself as she felt at her pocket to make sure the precious pads were still there. She had to think about business. The trouble was, she’d never run a business or even worked in any job aside from a part-time library assistant and helper in chess tournaments. She had no idea what to do.
“I’ll think about it tomorrow.”
Erin muttered to herself as she opened her door. It was just past midday, but she felt exhausted. She hated periods. Why couldn’t they have disappeared along with her world? Maybe there was a Skill to get rid of them. [No Period Pain] or [Bloodless Flow] or something like that—
As she opened the door to her inn, Erin stopped in her tracks. Her inn was empty. But something was moving underneath the table. Something glowing…
In her haste to leave, Erin had kicked her bloody towel and pants in a heap. And one of the windows must have been open a crack, because it had attracted guests.
A swarm of glowing green Acid Flies crawled over the dirty clothes. They rubbed their bodies all over the clothes, the table leg, the floor…
Parts of the wood were smoking and glistening with the Acid Flies’ toxic juices. Erin could see pitted holes in the floorboards. She stared in horror at the giant green flies crawling all over her clothes.
“You havegot to be kidding me.”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:39:10)
Leave any typos you find here, yes?
Robb (2023-03-06T01:12:18)
Hrr.
‘another [Innkeeper]until’
Bryan (2023-03-06T18:16:04)
I’m really glad the contents of Mating Rituals 1 is being decentralized throughout the reworked chapters.
Thariprasa (2023-03-08T19:18:34)
You know what, I think this is the first time I read about this,.. this phenomena in a fiction book.
I remember being just as surpriced as krishia the first time I read this. As someone who grew up in a shitty conservative country that did not have any sex education, this story gave me some basic understanding
Desiderata (2023-03-30T22:01:52)
Not a typo per se.
Wasn’t stitching up wounded people “invented” by Geneva Scala later in the story?
Or is it one of those crosscontinental differences, that Selys ‘stitched up more than a few adventurers’ before stitching Erins Pads?
Typo (2023-04-25T06:50:37)
Gnolls do not have your periods, nor do we let our blood each month.”
Gnolls do not have your periods, nor do we let out blood each month.”
greycat (2023-07-17T02:29:36)
No, that one is correct as written.
Let \Let\, v. t. […]
{To let blood}, to cause blood to flow; to bleed.
Sanguine (2023-09-21T14:41:51)
One of the reasons the Wandering Inn is so great! The world building and fantasy realism is on another level!
Scrifty (2023-11-07T15:51:08)
I intrigued tell me more about the mating rituals of the Gnolls.
Scrifty (2023-11-07T15:51:57)
What?! What country don’t give sex education?
Toni (2023-11-24T14:46:00)
Y’know, thinking carefully… I think this is actually the first time I’ve read a story that actually addresses the issue of periods, especially since it’s the main character. That actually really cool
yagoldt (2024-01-09T16:22:31)
She has a mage frequently going to her place and eating for free but she doesn’t ask that he does anything, like fixing the magic runes on the cupboards.
There are other rooms upstairs with beds and she still sleeps at the table.
And people are talking about how realistic this is.
Can't believe (2024-02-11T09:53:39)
I believe the story very much did a good job telling us why she can’t/wouldn’t do that. not straight up telling us but you can get the guess of it by understanding what you read.
Aeri (2024-05-28T02:13:35)
You do realize that many, many parts of the USA don’t teach sex ed of any kind in school? And many more places teach ‘abstinence only’ education, with barely any info other than ‘don’t have sex cause it’s bad, m’kay?’. Not only that, but lots of parents don’t teach their kids about stuff, either.
Mr anderson (2024-09-04T00:55:44)
Everyone makes the “this is why you can’t have female protagnist” jokes but it’s not often you see the author address it
Mr anderson (2024-09-04T00:59:47)
A lot of places, most of those that do don’t give much, not to mention they split it up by gender so guys get the condom banana if at all and girls get whatever weird archaic lesson they get and then people wonder why most guys don’t know much about tampons not out of lack of care but never really getting a chance outside of walking up to a girl and saying “tell me about tampons” it’s treated as taboo to tell men about it so the most they learn is women bleed once a month and they get angry
AbraCadaver (2024-10-09T13:51:37)
With how poor her inn’s placement is… I really want it to start actually wandering somehow lol

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.22
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/03/rw1-22/

A shifting, glowing mass of green and black insects covered the bottom half of a table and pieces of bloody cloth. Erin looked at the countless bugs that had entered her inn and wondered whether screaming would attract their attention. Probably.
They were huge, black bugs that vaguely resembled fireflies. Except these Acid Flies were up to three times bigger than fireflies, and instead of pretty glowing backsides, theirs were bulbous glowing orbs that exploded if you annoyed them. They were ungainly; they had a vaguely fly-like torso and front, but their backside was a huge, glowing bulb filled with the green acid that gave off a lurid, practically neon glow.
And they were in Erin’s inn. And there were dozens, crawling all over her bloody clothes.And they were in her inn.
“Oh no.No. This is not right.”
Slowly, she edged around the room. The Acid Flies took no notice of her. Erin made it to the kitchen, dropped her pads in a clean spot, and grabbed a bucket. Then she edged back out of the room and ran for the stream.
——
Ten minutes later, Erin opened the door of the inn and ducked as an Acid Fly buzzed at her face. The insect spiraled away and flew back to the bloody clothes. Erin narrowed her eyes and squinted.
It looked like the flies had devoured, or melted, a large part of the cloth. And either they were full or sleeping, because most of them were sitting on the pants or around it, not moving.
“Perfect.”
Erin tiptoed closer, pausing every few seconds to make sure she wasn’t bothering the bugs. The bucket was heavy in her hands, but she was close. She just needed to be in range.
When she was certain she was close enough, Erin took a deep breath and then hurled the bucket at the flies. The bugs were washed away by a tide of water and struggled helplessly on their backs, their wings too heavy to fly.
Erin moved fast. In an instant, she was in the kitchen and pulling out a large glass jar she’d used for storing perishable foods. She dumped a bunch of onions out and then grabbed a long-handled spatula.
The flies were still struggling to get up as Erin moved back into the common room. She bent down and began flicking them into the glass jar, one after another. Some exploded as the wooden spatula touched them, but soon, Erin had figured out the way to avoid the Acid Flies bursting was to hit their heads, rather than their glowing, green abdomens.
In no time at all, she’d rounded up all the Acid Flies and sealed them in the large glass jar. Then she was rushing back to mop the acidic water and the exploded flies in a disgusting mess out the front door of her inn. Thankfully, the water diluted the acid—it was just disgusting. That done, she sat back in a chair and wondered whether she was cursed.
“So. Apparently Acid Flies like blood. Right. And does that mean I have to worry about them landing on me when I sleep?”
She looked down at the jar of flies. Most of them were buzzing around inside the glass jar by now. They clung to the glass, fanning their wings innocently.
Erin lifted the jar up carefully and stared in horrified fascination at the bugs.
“Four legs. Iknew I wasn’t dreaming that up.”
That would technically make the flies not flies, but it didn’t matter either way. They looked like oversized houseflies, acted like them, and aside from the exploding acid bit, they were as harmless as flies.
“And now I have a jar full of these deadly little critters. What do I do now?”
Erin stared at the jar. Letting them go was probably a stupid idea. Mainly because they liked blood. And she was on her period. Ergo, they’d probably land on her and melt her face off. So what could she do?
“…Hm.”
Erin hesitated and then experimentally shook the jar. Instantly, half of the Acid Flies inside exploded. The green, glowing liquid flowed to the bottom of the glass jar while the bodies of the dead flies floated to the top.
After checking to make sure the top of the jar was extremely secure, Erin gave it a really hard shake. This time, the rest of the Acid Flies exploded, and she was left with a pool of green acid and a bunch of dead fly corpses bobbing on the surface. The glass and their bodies were the only completely acid-proof things that Erin had found. The cork would slowly dissolve if she turned the jar over—but slower than almost anything else, and it worked well enough as long as the jar was stored upright.
“I should feel bad about that. I really should.”
She didn’t. And as Erin stared at the dead flies floating in the acid, she had a thought. She carefully put the glass jar in a corner of the room where she wouldn’t trip over it by accident and got another one out from the kitchen.
“One jar for bugs, one jar for deadly acid. Perfect.”
Erin picked up the jars and hesitated again.
“Acid. Does it melt glass? It doesn’tlook like it’s melting, but will I wake up with a hole in my floor?”
She thought acid did. At least, the Aliens from the movie could melt through glass. But that was a movie. On the other hand, this was a fantasy world.
“Right. But in chemistry class, we used glass.”
But again, this was another world. Erin carefully held up the glass bottle and peered at the edges. No steam or atrophy so far. Even so, she put the jar in a far corner of the kitchen. Just in case. Then she inserted a metal ladle into the acid, saw that it didn’t dissolve either, and transferred the dead fly-bodies to a separate jar.
“Okay. Done. Now what?”
It took her two seconds to realize what she’d forgotten. Erin smacked her forehead.
“Time for cleanup.”
She got up wearily and trudged back into the common room. She looked down at the part of the floor and table where the Acid Flies had been congregating and swore when she saw the holes and gaps in the wood.
——
It wasn’t easy dragging a table out of the inn, but it helped when the wood broke apart and she could drag the pieces out. The acid had eaten through the base of the table and pitted the floorboards. That meant Erin was also faced with the lovely prospect of repairing the floor after she was done with the table.
Well, Klbkch had helped her repair the floorboards after the Chieftain attacked, so she knew what to do. Plus, he’d left the tools behind, including a kind of wood-glue and nails. A bit of figuring out how to pry the floorboards loose with a hammer and Erin’s [Basic Crafting] Skill did the rest. It took her an hour, but when she was done, the only sign the flies had been there were a few differently colored floorboards and her aching back.
“I hate all bugs. Except for Klbkch. No, actually, I hate him too. At least flies don’t lie to my face.”
Erin collapsed back into a chair and stared at the ceiling. Today was not a good day. In fact, she’d put it in the top ten bad days she’d ever had. Unfortunately, that meant it was agood day if you compared it to the ones she’d been having since she got here.
“Who knew I’d be grateful to be covered in sawdust and sweat rather than blood?”
She laughed, coughed as some dust got into her lungs, and stood up.
“Bath time.”
——
One of the glorious things Erin had been introduced to in Liscor was the public bathhouses. They weren’t free to enter, of course. She had to pay five coppers, but they were hot and luxurious and well worth the price. Come to that, she got off easy since she paid the same rate as Drakes. Gnolls and other Beastkin had to pay twice as much because of the fur.
Yes, the steaming bathhouses were a delight to match any convenience of the modern world. Just sinking into the scented waters was enough to take Erin away from the pain of reality.
That was why bathing in the freezing waters of the stream was twice as hard now. Erin stuck her foot in the water, yelped, and then decided to jump in before she lost her nerve.
——
The one good thing about being in the middle of nowhere was that you could bathe naked, and you could swear and scream as much as you wanted. After Erin had gone through the shock of getting in the cold water, she scrubbed herself as fast as possible, lathered herself with the ball of soap she’d bought from Krshia, and screamed again when she saw the fish in the water.
It shot through the water like a torpedo. Erin exploded out of the stream like a rocket. It followed her but couldn’t figure out how to run after her on dry ground. Erin ran around screaming, hit the fish with the bucket she’d brought until it stopped moving, and ran away. She came back only later when she’d had a brilliant idea.
——
Erin trudged back across the grasslands, an empty glass jar tucked under one hand and a knife and bucket in the other. She held the knife so it pointed down. She wasn’t sure if that rule only applied to scissors, but she figured it couldn’t hurt with knives.
It was later. In truth, it felt like days had passed, but somehow she was still on the same day. The sun was starting to set in the sky, though, so at least she was halfway done.
From this distance, she could see a green glow coming from the dead fish. Erin slowed down and put down her burden and shaded her eyes. It looked like her targets were already waiting for her.
“Hm.”
Erin squinted. All the flies were resting on the fish. Or in it. That was good.
Slowly, very slowly, she tiptoed towards the fish, the bucket in her hands. She eyed the Acid Flies and saw they were rubbing themselves all over the fish. The acid from their backsides was eating into the fish, and they in turn were eating the melted result.
“Oh wow. That’s gross.”
The flat fish wasn’t so much flat as runny now. Erin wondered if she should feel sick, but she mainly felt a kind of fascinated revulsion. She shook her head and got back to her mission before the flies decided they wanted dessert with dinner.
Stealthily, Erin filled the bucket from the stream. Then she tiptoed over to the fish and tossed the water all over the flies and the fish.
Again, the Acid Flies found themselves struggling on their backs, unable to fly. Erin dashed back and grabbed the glass jar.
“Take this! And that!”
Erin began smushing the downed Acid Flies with her glass jar. They exploded in showers of acid, and in no time, she’d killed them all. That done, Erin looked at the dead fish.
It was mostly melted from the acid. Erin prodded it with her knife and gagged. But she needed it, so she steeled herself and tried to cut the fish in two.
The knife blade sunk through the fish like butter. It wasn’t so much fish now as sludge. And no matter how hard Erin tried, she couldn’t get it to separate. Wherever she cut, the sludge oozed back together.
Disgusted in more than one sense, Erin covered her face with one hand.
“Well, of course that would happen.”
She needed a spoon, not a knife. Lacking one, she used the knife to scoop some of the fish sludge away. She stared at it and felt her stomach roiling. As the smell of the decayed fish hit her nose, she dry-heaved.
“I can do this. Think of the money. Think of the food. Think of the inn.Don’t think of the fish.”
She took several deep breaths while looking the other way. When she was fairly sure she wasn’t about to throw up, she went back to the sludge.
“Okay, [Basic Crafting], activate!”
First, Erin took some of the green fish-sludge and poured it in the bottom of her glass jar. Then, she took off the glass top and set it on top of the jar so that it was just wide enough to let flies squeeze into the container, but didn’t give them much room to get out. Then she walked away.
“Acid Fly trap, complete!”
Erin stared at the glass jar. She slapped herself gently with one hand. Then she set up three more jars the same way.
“Let’s see how you like this, you little jerks.”
——
“You have a talent for finding the most dangerous things, don’t you?”
Pisces shuddered as he gazed at the Acid Fly traps. He edged away from them and rubbed his arms nervously. Erin grinned at him.
“Aren’t they gross? But look—the jars are almost half full, and it’s not even been more than two hours.”
“How fascinating.”
He took another step back. Erin eyed him, but she couldn’t judge him too harshly. Both she and the mage were a good ten feet away from the glass jars.
Erin had to own it—she wasn’t good at making traps. The entire conceit of her jar trap was that the lid wasjust placed such that a fly would have trouble getting out because insects were stupid. However, if she were trying to trap houseflies, most would invariably leave the trap once the food ran out.
…In this case, the Acid Flies were just stupid and didn’t want to leave. They swarmed over the fish-melt without a care in the world, and it was easy to just tip-toe over and close the lid. Thus, you had a jar full of…acidic flies. Pisces could admire the traps—he just didn’t seewhy you wanted a jar. Of Acid Flies.
Pisces licked his lips as he stared at the jars. The way the countless glowing shapes moved and heaved against the glass was hypnotic. It also put him off his lunch. He turned to Erin and smiled wanly.
“I imagine…I imagine if all four containers were to rupture, the swarm of these insects could very well engulf us and melt our flesh within moments.”
Erin thought about this and gave Pisces a scowl.
“What a lovely image.”
“Yes. Yes, I imagine it will fill my dreams tonight.”
She shook her head.
“They can’t get out of the jars. They’re not that smart. They wriggle in, but the lid keeps them from exiting. I did the same thing with fruit flies back where I lived. Well, I lined the edges with sticky tape, but this seems to work because these guys are even dumber than fruit flies.”
“I applaud your ingenuity. But may I askwhy you decided to capture a swarm of deadly insects that prey on dead matter?”
“Well, they’re bugs. I bet Klbkch would love to eat them.”
Pisces gave her a fish-eye look. He shook his head.
“It’s your funeral if you want to attempt to cook them. May I advise removing the acid before you serve them to your guests?”
Erin glowered at Pisces. She wasn’t even sure why she’d invited the mage to see her traps. She just wanted to show off, and he was the only one who’d come for dinner that night.
“I don’t get how they can survive anyways, if they explode so much. I mean, how would they even live long enough to reproduce?”
“By having few predators insane enough to risk consuming them. That, and the fact that they are nearly limitless in number.”
“Ah.”
Pisces waved a hand at the glass jars.
“These are only the males of the species, in any case. The females are—substantially—larger. In fact, the sole purpose of the male is to gather as much food as possible. He will dissolve and absorb as much nutrition into his lower abdomen before returning to a female in hopes of winning her favor. They all do it.”
“Oh, sort of like how bees and ants both have queens, right? All the workers feeding the big leader?”
Erin glanced over and saw Pisces gaping at her open-mouthed.
“What?”
He shook his head.
“I was unaware you were so familiar with the biology of insects, that’s all.”
“Oh, I know tons of weird animal facts. When I was a kid, I watched Discovery Chann—I mean, I read lots of books.”
“You can read?”
Pisces gave her a look almost bordering on respect. Erin glowered at him.
“Of course I can read. I can also play chess, and I read poetry. Sometimes.”
“You can play chess?”
Erin glared again, but he seemed genuinely curious.
“Oh yeah. I play chess. A tiny bit. You could say it’s a hobby of mine.”
It was sad to see the sly look that crept into his gaze before he turned his head, coughed, and came back with a carefully bland expression. Pisces’ lips twitched as he gestured to the inn over-casually.
“Really? As it happens, I was considered one of the better players in the northern cities. Would you care for a game? Perhaps with a wager or two on the side?”
Pisces smiled innocuously at her. Erin rolled her eyes.
——
An hour later, Pisces stared at the chess pieces in front of him with desperate concentration. He moved the king piece in front of him left and then right. He turned his head to look at the board another way.
“Perhaps if I—”
“Nope. And even if you try to take the pawn, it’s still checkmate.”
Erin didn’t bother looking up from her meal. She’d made scrambled eggs with sausage on the side. It wasn’t the most exciting of meals to eat, but it was tasty, filling, and better than having to stare at Pisces.
He sat back, put his fingers in his hair, and stared at the board with a look of wild disbelief. He glanced up at Erin, looked at the board, and then gave up and sat back. Pisces stared at the beams in the ceiling overhead, as if uncertain whether this was reality or a fever dream.
“I cannot fathom it. I was—am one of the best players on the continent! I have outplayed [Tacticians] and other mages of similar caliber and skill. How could you defeat me?”
She shrugged.
“Amateurs are still amateurs. By the way, I’ll put the money you bet me on your tab.”
Pisces’ eyes widened. He had made several bets before he realized who he was up against. Erin hadn’t saved him from himself. He lurched upright, a finger desperately raised.
“Ah. That. Clearly, I made a miscalculation. Would you care to waive my debts if I—”
“No. You bet, and I won. No arguing. Eat your eggs.”
Erin heard a loudsniff, but after a moment, she also heard the clink of metal on pottery.
“I must admit, this is better fare than your unfortunate soup of yesterday.”
She looked up. Pisces quickly looked down at his plate.
After she’d glared for a bit, Erin asked a question that had been on her mind for a while.
“What do you do all day, anyways?”
Pisces looked up and swallowed the scrambled eggs.
“I study the mystical realms of the transmundane. To unlock the secrets of the ether and command over supernatural forces, I—”
“You study.”
“Pretty much.”
Pisces shrugged and went back to munching on his dinner.
“Do you need to study that much? I mean, don’t you know spells?”
He sighed.
“For all my magical proficiency, I cannot cast more than a few magics beyond the fourth tier in any field, and I am relegated to first and second-tier magics in most fields outside of my specialization.”
Erin sampled one of her pieces of bacon and nearly burnt her tongue.
“Oh. Um. Magic has tiers?”
Pisces rolled his eyes.
“Indeed. Seven or eight to be exact. There is a speculative ninth tier of magic, but no [Mage] has ever cast or discovered a spell of such magic that I have read of in any history book. Well, Tier 7 spells are a thing of myth in the modern era. In any case, to cast such spells, [Mages] such as I require concentration, time, and effort to unravel the workings of each new incantation.”
Again, Erin had to pause to figure out what Pisces was saying.
“Right. So you study to cast better spells. And I guess that makes you level up as well?”
He began prodding his king-piece moodily, annoyed by her rephrasing all his statements.
“Obviously. It is a taxing affair, especially given that menial affairs such as lodging and sustenance must be taken care of while one attempts to study.”
Erin propped her head on one elbow.
“Almost makes you wish you had a job, huh?”
Pisces eyed her dourly.
“Until recently, I had a quite profitable side business liberating unneeded supplies from the locals in exchange for entertainment. But now, I abstain from such activities to stay within your good graces.”
“Yeah, and because Relc threatened to stab you if you kept doing it. That’s not really a good career path, you know.”
He sniffed loudly.
“I also had a far more lucrative occupation liberating unneeded items from those who were in no position to use them, but apparently, that is considered a grave violation of privacy as well.”
“You rob thedead?”
“I reburied them afterwards.”
Erin opened her mouth, raised a finger, threw up her hands, and gave up. She stared at Pisces as the mage huffily finished his food.
“Why don’t you do something actually useful instead?”
“And what would I do that is so useful?”
“I dunno. What do mages do for a living? Blow up stuff with fireballs? Dispense sage advice? Sell their beards? I found a bunch of magic runes in the kitchen. They kept food fresh for—I dunno, years.”
“Ah. A [Preservation] spell, no doubt. Yes, that is certainly a service some [Mages] skilled in runecraft can provide for plebians.”
“…And? Can you do that?”
“I cannot.”
“Darn.”
Pisces folded his fingers as he sat back, as haughty as a king on a throne. And somehow, a king in rags, waiting for his second helping of bacon.
“I am sorry to betray your high expectations of me, but I fear even a mage of my caliber cannot study every school of the higher arts.”
Erin glanced up at Pisces. The mage was scraping his plate with the knife and fork. She had the distinct impression he would have licked it if she weren’t watching. He really was thin, and so, sighing, she added another egg to the mix as she ladled bacon dripping with grease onto the plate. Amazingly, he had gotten mad when she tried to drain the grease. So had Relc.
“I never had high hopes for you in the first place. I just think it’s too bad, that’s all. You know magic, and you don’t do anything with it.”
Pisces put down his fork.
“Some would say magic is its own reward. I would.”
“I guess.”
Erin sighed. She felt like she was talking to a wall. A particularly annoying wall with bad hygiene.
“You know, if you actually helped people and were a bit nicer, I think you’d actually be fun to hang around with. Why are you so rude to everyone?”
She hadn’t meant it to sting, but clearly it hit Pisces somewhere vulnerable. He sat up straight in his chair, his eyes flashing.
“Thus far, I haven’t found any people worthy of my assistance. Why should I help those who judge me in ignorance and fear?”
Erin blinked up at him. The young mage’s face was pale with indignation, but spots of color flared in each cheek. She thought about asking him another question—but he was in no mood for conversation. His eyes flashed with a kind of actual anger. Not at her—but it was so real she was taken aback.
She could have dropped it. Instead, Erin just shrugged and stood up. She looked Pisces in the eyes and retorted calmly.
“Because you’re a better person than they are.”
He blinked. His eyes were grey and green, not like moss on a rock, more like a dance between the two colors, a nebula of both and perhaps the faintest hint of orange in that distant solar phenomenon. Scornful, aloof normally—and right now, wide with surprise. They did not look like any [Necromancer]’s gaze that Erin would have imagined.
She collected his plate and hers and left the mage sitting at the table. When she came out of the kitchen, he was gone.
——
The next day, Erin got up and went to check on her fly traps. They’d worked scarily well.
All four glass jars were filled with crawling, wriggling shapes. Erin took one look at the jars, gagged a bit, and then had to go sit down.
“Oh man. Oh wow. That’s the nastiest thing I’ve ever seen.”
It was also, on reflection, the scariest thing she’d ever seen. Erin wondered what would happen if she accidentally knocked the lid off of one of the jars. She recalled Pisces’ comment about melting flesh and shuddered.
Carefully, Erin walked over to the jars. She repeatedly thought about how important it wasnot to trip.
Her foot caught on a tuft of grass. Erin windmilled her arms wildly and caught herself just before she tripped into one of the jars.
“Not okay. Not okay.”
Before her heart could finish stopping, Erin adjusted the lids of each jar so they firmly covered the openings. Now, the Acid Flies couldn’t get out at all.
“That’s better.”
Erin hefted one of the jars up and felt some of the Acid Flies explode within.
“Oof. That’sheavy.”
She repositioned the jar as the acid and flies shifted inside. For such little insects, they weighed aton.
“Gotta be all the acid in their backsides. Okay. This could take a while.”
Erin took one step and then another. She adjusted her grip around the glass jar so she wouldn’t drop it. She’d have to watch the ground for potholes, but she was pretty happy with her posture. She took another step and tripped over another of the glass fly traps.
The ground rushed to meet Erin’s face. She realized she was still holding the glass jar and hurled it away from her just in time. She smacked into the ground hard and exhaled hard. Aside from that, she was fine.
Then Erin heard the glass jarshatter as it hit the ground. She rolled to her feet and stood up.
The large glass jar lay in shards on the grass. Green-gray acidic sludge dripped onto the ground, raising steam andhissing where it met the soil. For a moment, all was still among the wreckage. Then, with a horrific buzzing, a swarm of black shapes flew into the air.
Erin felt her heart stop. She looked up at the spiraling cloud of flies. They flew around wildly, looking for whatever had disturbed them. Erin backed away slowly, praying they would ignore her. For a moment, it seemed as if they would fly off, but then the entire direction of the swarm changed. The cloud of flies seemed to recoil and then encircled Erin in an instant.
Her heart had stopped. It wasn’t beating in her chest. Erin looked around desperately, but all she saw were buzzing,buzzing flies. They filled the sky, the ground, everything.
“I—”
They swarmed her. Erin screamed and covered her eyes and mouth.
“[Gust]!”
Erin heard the voice and then a raging gale blew around her. She staggered as the wind blew her around. The effect on the Acid Flies was even more pronounced. They were blasted away from Erin into a funnel of air that whirled them into one spot. They buzzed around angrily, disoriented and confused.
So was Erin. She looked around and saw a familiar young man wearing dirty grey robes. He was pointing a finger in her direction.
“Duck, Erin!”
Erin dove to the ground and hit the dirt hard. She looked up and saw Pisces raise one hand. A pale frost formed at his fingertips, and half-visible gusts of wind blew around the length of his arm. He pointed at the disoriented swarm of Acid Flies.
“[Frozen Wind].”
A gentle breeze blew against the top of Erin’s head. Then, the aircrackled and her hair froze in place. Erin could see the faintest trace of whirling air as it blew over her head. Where it passed, snow began to fall from the sky, and she felt an intense freezing cold engulf her.
The swarm of Acid Flies flew into the freezing breeze and fell out of the sky. Erin yelped and ran as they showered down around her, frozen insects that burst as they hit the ground.
She dove into the river and leapt out of it just as quickly in case the flat fish tried to bite her. When she cleared the water out of her eyes, the glowing swarm was gone, and all that was left was a circle of smoking dirt and frozen grass.
When Erin had finished shaking so hard she couldn’t move, she stood up. She was still trembling uncontrollably.
“That wasthe most amazing thing I’ve ever seen. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.”
She lurched over to Pisces. She wasn’t sure if she should throw her arms around him or start crying. She settled for a brief hug and then doubled down and hugged him fiercely. He didn’t seem to notice the fact that she was dripping with water.
Pisces was breathing hard. He stared at the sizzling patch of earth where the Acid Flies had been, as if mesmerized. She could see the whites of his eyes as they shifted towards her.
“It—that was a beginner’s spell. Not suitable for most combat and downplayed by my instructors. However, it was the best tool for the moment. All magic is worth using, after all.”
“Right.”
Erin nodded. Pisces nodded. His eyes flicked back to the patch of melted earth.
“You saved me. It was incredible, that spell.”
He shook his head and waved a hand weakly in her direction.
“I am—I am a [Mage] of Wistram Academy. As a talented practitioner of the wind elementalist field of magic along with other spells in a generalist’s repertoire, of course such displays are second—second—”
Pisces bent over and threw up in the grass. He retched and then threw up again. Erin patted him on the back and waited for him to stop.
After a while, Pisces wiped his mouth with a corner of his robe. His face was still pale, but he looked better.
“You were lucky I happened to be here. Very lucky.”
Erin nodded.
“I was. I really was.”
Pisces nodded back. Erin felt like they were both bobbleheads, but there was nothing else to do. He pointed a trembling finger at the three glass jars still holding the swarms of Acid Flies.
“If you insist on using such traps, might I suggest you anchor them in the stream?”
Erin looked blank.
“The stream? Why?”
“Several reasons.”
Pisces shakily counted them off on his fingers.
“Firstly, the natural buoyancy of the water would prevent the breakage of glass if the jars were dropped, or at least mitigate the danger of the Acid Flies. Secondly, the effects of wind and other native life would also be mitigated. And thirdly, I would not be at risk of tripping over such traps.”
“Right. I can do that.”
She wasn’t sure if it was shock, but the trembling in her body had nearly vanished. Erin grabbed a rock, tied some long grass to it, and anchored the rock to the glass jar. She dropped the rock in the stream and watched the jar bob and float in the water.
“Hm. I need something heavy to make sure it stays upright. I guess sometimes the jars might turn over…but it’ll work. Better than leaving them on the ground. A hundred thousand times better.”
Pisces nodded again.
“Well.”
“Good thing you came along.”
Both nodded again. Pisces opened his mouth and grimaced. He went over to the stream and shakily rinsed his mouth out. Then he looked up at her.
“May I ask—what is it you plan to do now, Erin?”
She looked at him. Then she looked at the glass jars full of flies.
“I’m going to take these jars back to the inn. You’re coming with me in case I drop one. And then…”
“And then?”
“And then I’m going to feed you until you explode like one of the flies.”
Pisces glanced down at the glass jars and the milling Acid Flies within. He shuddered again.
“An apt description.”
——
The jar of Acid Flies was a mix of acid and death. The corpses of hundreds—thousands of the small bugs floated in a sea of glowing green juice. It slopped against the side of the glass, an obscene testament to insectoid death.
“Hold on, I think there’s one left.”
Erin shook the glass jar. The last remaining Acid Fly bounced against the glass and popped dully within.
“What will you do with them?”
She looked up at Pisces. The mage was sitting several tables away from her, deliberately not looking at the glass jars.
“I’ll separate the flies and the acid. I don’t know what I’ll do with the acid.”
“If you dispose of it, please do so with utmost care. While the acid of these insects cannot eat through metal or many conventional materials, it is extremely quick to dissolve any organic material.”
Erin nodded. She carefully put the glass jar back in its corner and stood up.
“Right. Um. Want another piece of bread? Or would you like some more juice?”
The sight of the fresh bread and cup of juice made the mage’s face turn an indelicate shade of green. He patted his bloated stomach anderped. He covered his mouth with his hand, but Erin was pretty sure he’d nearly thrown up.
“Maybe not, then.”
“You have been most kind.”
Pisces stood up and clutched at his stomach. He wavered and cast his eyes towards the door.
“Most kind. But the night is old, and I believe I shall retire.”
“Are you sure? I could get you a bag of food to go.”
He turned a darker shade of green and waved a hand quickly at her.
“You are very considerate, but no. No. I will be off. Thank you for your hospitality.”
“It was nothing. Let me get the door for you—there. Careful on your way out.”
She saw Pisces out the door and then turned and looked back at the table he’d sat in. It was filled with empty plates and crumbs. She debated cleaning it up and then shook her head.
Carefully, Erin picked her way across the inn. She walked over to the three filled jars of Acid Flies and made sure for the umpteenth time that the lids were secure and that she couldn’t see any flies still wriggling around inside.
Among the many things Erin had bought from Krshia, one of them was a chalkboard and piece of chalk. She’d meant to record things she needed on it, but now, Erin wiped the black slate clean and used her best handwriting as she wrote on the board. Then she propped it up on the bar’s counter.
Menu:
Pasta w/sausage and onions – 3 cp. per plate.
Blue juice – 2 cp. per glass.
Acid Flies – 1 s. per plate
She dropped the chalk on the counter and cast her eyes back at the jars of dead flies. Erin shuddered. She rubbed at her arms and sat in her chair. Too close. Too close by far.
In a while, she’d fall asleep. In a while, she’d wake up screaming and then fall asleep again. She’d be haunted by the sound ofbuzzing wings for the next week. But for the moment, Erin’s eyes closed.
[Innkeeper Level 10!]
[Skill – Alcohol Brewing obtained!]
[Skill – Dangersense obtained!]
“…I wonder if you can make fly cookies?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-03T21:39:43)
Leave any typos you find here and Erin will brew alcohol. This is not a promise.
Kai (2023-03-07T20:33:06)
“considered a ***grave*** violation of privacy”
I see what you did there!!!
Pervsua (2023-03-08T19:41:03)
*melt her face off.
Not face ?
Aldamiel (2023-03-09T18:14:12)
Ah, yes. Erin’s most useless skill.
juppie (2023-03-11T21:53:46)
Hey I’m sure dangersense has helped her at least once.
Grault (2023-03-15T04:39:57)
So apparently the acid is somehow used in brewing… I can’t think of how the two are related, but I don’t know much about brewing.
Now she just needs to find out that the wine from the blue fruits is valuable.
greycat (2023-07-17T03:18:20)
In the rewrite, Klbkch never asked Erin if she had any insects to serve him, so it’s a bit out of the blue that Erin thinks to offer Acid Flies for consumption.
Takusaka (2023-10-03T15:11:56)
Oh you’re right
Eleeyah (2023-10-06T01:19:59)
Her actually tripping with the glass jars there seems a little weird. ^^
If you’re actively looking not tip trip, you don’t transfer your weight onto the next leg before it’s save. So it doesn’t matter what you get caught in… you just don’t trip up since you don’t have any momentum
marine (2023-10-19T14:01:51)
That acid is probably too strong, and will kill any yeast in the brew
Scrifty (2023-11-07T16:27:41)
I sweat this girl is the most clumsy MC I’ve ever read about.
Oddwell (2023-12-24T16:13:34)
Especially since, like, tripping over her own feet hasn’t been a huge part of her character so far. Suddenly, she’s got these dangerous jars lying around and is tripping over everything? ?
yagoldt (2024-01-09T23:29:44)
I was wondering this exact thing. It seemed so random. Thanks for this comment.
RougeEmber (2024-02-06T03:17:18)
The entire conceit of her jar trap was that the lid wasjust placed
concept*
Omni (2024-08-18T08:57:54)
I have no idea if you’re a newcomer or if you’re an old timer joking around.
Mr anderson (2024-09-04T01:13:58)
Unless I missed it klbkch never mentioned asking for insects which according to greycat he did in the original, it makes her planning to feed him acid Flys after learning he doesn’t like pasta seem like a crazy thing out of nowhere
WanderingBy (2024-09-12T19:50:37)
“an empty glass jar tucked under one hand”
Should probably be either “…jar in one hand” or “…jar tucked under one arm”

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.24
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-24/

“Baking soda.”
Krshia shook her head. Once more, she stood at her shop counter, this time sharpening a knife with a whetstone as a product demo. She was selling whetstones and knives. She seemed very familiar with both; there wasn’t much chance she would cut herself as she applied more water to the whetstone.
Erin hadn’t known you sharpened knives with, well, astone. Or that you got it wet. Hence the name. Krshia had laughed the entire time—until she realized Erin was serious. And when the Human girl described the idea of the ingredient she needed, the Gnoll rested her chin on her paw and frowned mightily.
“I know not what that is. I have many things which can be baked, but none of this ‘soda.’”
Erin groaned. She felt she shouldn’t be surprised, but she still hated being surprised.
“How about baking powder? Everyone has baking powder!”
Again, Krshia shook her head.
“What is this powder supposed to bake, Erin Solstice?”
“Cookies.”
“And what are these ‘cookies’?”
Erin gaped at Krshia. She gestured with her hands.
“Cookies. You know? Small, round, brown things?”
“Are you talking about cow leavings, Erin Solstice?”
“No!”
Furiously, Erin grabbed at her hair. She immediately let go. Her hair was not as hygienic or as clean as she was used to it being.
“How do you—this world doesn’t havecookies? How is that fair? How!?”
Erin stopped ranting and pounded her fist lightly into her hand.
“…How about ice cream?”
“What is this ice—”
——
Thirty minutes of Krshia laughing and snorting at her later, Erin Solstice was walking back to her inn. She kicked at the clumpy grass, too mad to even admire the orange tint to the patch she was walking through. She was mad.
“Stupid worlds that don’t have ice cream. Stupid Gnolls who act nice and look at me like I’m insane. How does anyonelive without ice cream and cookies?”
Erin grumbled to herself as she trudged back to her inn. She kicked the knee-high grass and wished she had a lawnmower the size of a skyscraper. Maybe then her legs wouldn’t itch so much after walking—
Clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick—
A familiar sound across the plains. It made Erin’s blood go cold. She stopped, listened, and then saw it.
A gigantic, grey, craggy rock seemed to be levitating across the grasslands. But that was only an illusion. If you looked closer, you’d see many legs churning up the soil underneath the rock. But Erin had no intention of getting that close. She knew what was making that sound and what was living under that rock.
It was a Rock Crab. Erin froze and then turned to run. But it wasn’t coming at her.
Instead, the gigantic rock was propelling itself across the grasslands quite quickly. Its rapidly shuffling legs tore up the earth as it ran. But it wasn’t chasing anything. Was it running away? From what?
Erin got her answer as a bunch of much smaller figures surged over the crest of a hill, chasing the Rock Crab. Goblins.
Goblins? Chasing a Rock Crab?
What a ridiculous statement. Erin was amazed to see the same group that had been around her inn when the Chieftain…her smile vanished, but it came back when she saw the silly sight.
A huge Rock Crab, half as large as a house, was scurrying across the grass, surging down a hill as little green figures, short and waving weapons, pursued it. Erin had been in that situation, but she hadn’t weighed—what—thousands of pounds? Yet the crab fled the tiny group of eight, and Erin wondered if the Goblins had scared it with seedpods. That was the only thing she could think of.
At first, Erin grinned at the sight, but her smile faded as more and more of them appeared. First there were eight. Then ten. Then twenty—forty—
Yiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyi—
That was a lot of them.Erin’s smile vanished as she heard that familiar, dangerous sound. The Goblins were screaming a warcry of their own as they chased the Rock Crab. The crab seemed to sense them behind it and sped up, but it was still too slow. As Erin watched in amazement, the first Goblin leapt and managed to cling to the Rock Crab’s shell.
Instantly, it swung around and threw the Goblin off. From underneath the Rock Crab’s shell, a large claw appeared andsnapped at the Goblin. Erin covered her mouth as the Goblin screamed and held up a bloody stump of an arm.
But even as the Rock Crab surged towards the injured Goblin, more Goblins leapt at it. It swung around, trying to knock them away, but although it knocked several Goblins flying, many more dodged its claw and charged at the Rock Crab, screaming wildly.
The Goblins swarmed the Rock Crab. Erin watched, open-mouthed as the giant land crustacean snapped and struck out with its claws. Three Goblins fell away, severely cut and bleeding. One was missing a hand, but the others—
They swarmed over the rocky shell, bashing it with clubs. They ducked underneath it as well, biting, stabbing,tearing.
Erin couldn’t see what was happening as more and more Goblins crawled underneath the Rock Crab’s shell, but she saw it spasm. Itclicked rapidly in pain and swiped at the Goblins, but they were too close for its claws to grab at. A baby blue liquid seeped from beneath the shell. The giant Rock Crab collapsed, and slimy, blue Goblins dripping in entrails and crab shell emerged from underneath.
Erin backed away slowly. Her heart was pounding a million times per second. She imagined what would happen if one of the Goblins glanced over at her. They’d rush her and cover her in an instant.
But they were all intent on their kill. The Goblins were ripping the Rock Crab apart, hungrily scarfing down its guts. It was a sight to make Erin nauseous, but her stomach was already clenched tight from fear.
Eventually, she thought she was far enough away. Erin turned and ran.
——
Most of the other Goblins didn’t see the departing Human. They were too busy cracking the Rock Crab’s hard shell and scooping out its slimy entrails. They feasted.
But a few Goblins did notice the Human. One with ragged clothes, the smallest of the tribe, stopped biting into the Rock Crab’s bitter flesh to watch the young woman leave. The Goblin gripped something in her pocket tightly. Soon. It would be soon.
The ragged pouch of coin jingled softly as the Goblin shook it. The littlest looked around quickly, but the other Goblins were too busy gorging themselves to notice the small sound. The female Goblin stowed her pouch of coins among her ragged clothes. Then she went back to eat as much as she could.
The warriors let her pass. They were grunting, tearing bits of raw crab off to eat. There was no Chieftain. The Chieftain was dead—the tribe might have fractured or fallen apart, but they would eat well today, and they might have lots of food till later.
All because they’d hunted a Rock Crab.Without the Chieftain! The tribe hadn’t been certain it would work, but—the Chieftain had never run fast enough to kill the crabs anyways. If they could do it with him just shouting for them to ‘run faster’—why couldn’t they try to do it one last time?
That was what the littlest Goblin had suggested, and the warriors had taken her suggestion because everyone was hungry. Now, they glanced at her and let her grab a juicy bit of the crab’s stomach. The littlest Goblin didn’t like whatever it was—it was wet, slimy, and bitter. But she felt her pouch full of shiny coins.
Soon.
——
When Relc and Klbkch tried the door to the Wandering Inn, they found it was locked. Only after Relc had knocked twice did the door open a crack. When Erin finally let the two in, she bolted the door as soon as they were inside.
Relc raised one non-existent eyebrow and flicked his tail idly at Erin.
“What’s gotten into you?”
“Greetings, Miss Solstice. Is something wrong?”
Erin looked warily out the window, but felt better with Relc and Klbkch in the building.
“Goblins.”
“Goblins?”
Relc laughed as he and Klbkch sat themselves at one of the tables.
“What, are they throwing rocks at you again? If you want, I could—um, scare them. But Goblins? Seriously? After you killed their Chieftain, what’s there to worry about?”
“How about a group of Goblins that can kill a giant rock-crab-thing in seconds?”
Erin snapped at Relc as the Drake laughed.
“It was the scariest thing I’ve seen. Some kind of raiding party swarmed over the crab and—”
“A raiding party?”
Relc sat up in his chair and grabbed for his spear.
“Where, and how many? Come on, Klbkch. We can head them off—”
He jumped to his feet. Erin waved her hands frantically.
“No, no! There’s way too many of them. Besides, I don’t want you to kill them! That would be—”
Relc interrupted Erin as Klbkch watched her silently. The Antinium’s hands were on his weapons too.
“Look, if there’s a raiding party out there, we need to take care of it. I can ignore a few Goblins, but a few hundred of them roaming around? That’s a threat.”
He went for the door, but Erin dragged him back. Or rather, tried to. Her feet slid uselessly across the ground, and he didn’t even seem to notice her weight.
“Exactly how many Goblins were in this group you observed, Miss Solstice?”
Klbkch interrupted Erin’s futile struggling as Relc paused by the door.
“Well—”
Erin had to think.
“Not more than forty, I guess.”
Relc blinked and stopped unbolting the door. He looked back at Klbkch and then down at Erin. Slowly, he walked back to his chair. Then he sat down in it and started to laugh.
Erin gaped as Relc chuckled and then transitioned into full-scale guffaws of mirth. He covered his face with one claw and pounded the table with the other.
“Just what’s so funny?”
“A raiding party, she says! Hah!”
“I fear you were under a slight misapprehension, Miss Solstice.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yeah!”
Relc finally managed to get his laughter under control when Klbkch stepped on one of his feet. He wiped tears out of his eyes and grinned at Erin.
“That’s just the local tribe. Forty Goblins? Please. I could take out half of them without breaking a sweat. Between me and Klbkch, we could kill all of them—”
He broke off and cleared his throat.
“Not that we would.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Despite their competency, a Goblin tribe is no threat to any but lone stragglers, Miss Solstice. On the other hand, a small raiding party is usually comprised of at least three hundred Goblins. Larger groups have been known to exceed a thousand individuals.”
Erin gulped.
“That’s not a raiding party. That’s an army.”
“Not if you’re a Goblin.”
Relc’s expression became serious as he leaned back in his chair.
“Yeah, like Klbkch said, a Goblin tribe isn’t dangerous. Maybe to you—but you killed their Chieftain, so I doubt they’d be brave enough to attack this place. Besides, if you lock the doors and windows, they’ll have a hard time getting in. But when Goblins start appearing in numbers? That’s when things get nasty.”
She heard the silent cue and took it.
“How nasty?”
Klbkch leaned forwards over the table.
“Extremely. Although Goblins are considered a minor threat by most settlements of any size, when they do appear in numbers, they are fully capable of wiping out villages, cities, and even nations in the past.”
“Get out.”
“It is quite true, Miss Solstice.”
Relc nodded.
“I’ve heard stories of the Goblin Crusades. And witnessed one myself. The last time one occurred, multiple armies of Goblins rampaged throughout the north and sailed across to the Human continent, Terandria. There were at least a hundred thousand Goblins in each army, and their King had a million Goblins at his back when we pushed his forces out of the south. The Bloodfields.”
He stopped talking for a moment, and his arm tensed around his cup.
“Bastard. The north got him in the end. But it felt like you couldn’t see anything but smoke everywhere you looked. I heard the north was ash in some parts of it. They nearly took First Landing.”
Erin felt like she needed a history class or at least a map. Yet Relc’s face was suddenly set and Klbkch was quiet. She hesitated—but she had to ask.
“Bloodfields? What’s that?”
Relc snapped out of his fugue and blinked. Then he looked amused again.
“Oh come on! You don’t know about…? Even if you’re foreign, the Bloodfields are famous! It used to be a battlefield. Well, it still is. Lots of armies fight there, and so much blood has been spilled that the entire place has changed. The entire area is full of Blood Grass. Very nasty. Drinks blood and eats people if they’re not careful. I fought there twice.”
“Oh.”
Erin felt like she should say something else, but Relc’s expression had grown uncharacteristically serious. She searched for something else to say.
“Then…the Goblin tribe isn’t that dangerous?”
Relc flicked his tail dismissively.
“Not to me or Klbkch. Just don’t walk into them, and you should be fine. Most people can outrun a tribe unless they get trapped anyways.”
“But they killed a Rock Crab!”
“Yeah, what’s that?”
“You know, that giant thing that hides under a rock? It goesclickclickclickclick—”
“Oh,that. Is that what you Humans call it? We just call them Hollowstone Deceivers. What’s a crab?”
“A creature that lives in the sea, I believe. The name is quite apt.”
“Whatever. It’s not that tough.”
Erin blinked at Relc.
“It’s not?”
He waved a hand at her dismissively.
“Oh, we’ve got a lot more freaky monsters living around here. Way more dangerous. They’re just all sleeping or somewhere else this time of year.”
“Or underground.”
“Yeah, or that.”
That didn’t sound good to Erin at all.
“I haven’t seen any of these other monsters. Just the dinosaur birds.”
Klbkch nodded.
“That is appropriate for the season. At this time of the year, the Floodplains contain few creatures besides the Goblins. Aside from grazing herds, most animals—”
“Herds? You guys have herds?”
Again, Klbkch nodded.
“They are usually confined in villages to the north of Liscor. The city hosts many pigs, sheep, horses—”
Relc nodded and smacked his lips.
“Delicious. They’re great if you eat them half-raw. Speaking of which, got any food?”
“Oh, right. Sorry.”
Erin got up and mechanically began placing dishes on the table.
“Dinner will just be a few minutes while I warm everything up on the embers. Uh, what other creatures haven’t I seen yet?”
Relc scratched his head.
“What else? Um. What about Shield Spiders? They’re probably hiding in their tunnels right now, but they’re still around…watch where you step or you’ll fall into a nest.”
Klbkch twitched as Relc mentioned the spiders. Erin twitched too, and her skin crawled at the thought. Relc grinned at both and shook his head.
“Don’t worry. It’s not the right season for them. You’ll see a lot more wildlife around here when the new year begins. This is the quietest time of the year, actually. Once the rains start, you’ll see a ton of weird creatures, and then when it stops, all the animals that travel come here to graze. And in the winter, it getsreally dangerous. There’s these things called Winter Sprites, which are a pain in the tail…”
“Wonderful. I bet everyone comes here to see all the monsters who want to suck your face off.”
It might have been that Drakes were impervious to sarcasm. Or it might have just been Relc’s natural obliviousness. He nodded happily as he licked his lips.
“We used to get a lot of travel down south. But that all stopped when the damn Necromancer appeared.”
“Necromancer? You mean Pisces?”
“That weakling mage? No. I mean the bad Necromancer that nearly destroyed the city about ten years ago. Is the food ready yet?”
“Not yet. So that’s why you guys hate the undead?”
Klbkch shook his head as Relc glanced longingly towards the kitchen where good smells were beginning to waft out.
“I believe the Necromancer did not help public perception, but the undead have always been considered a threat, Miss Solstice. It is said that the three most dangerous things to Liscor are rain, the undead, and war.”
“I can see war, but why rain and the undead?”
“Bah. They’re the real threats. War? Huh. We don’t fearwar. Our army fights in wars—far south of here! They send back loot, but no one attacks Liscor! We’re too far, and the Bloodfields are in the way.”
“That is true. Most residents of Liscor do not fear war. I personally deem this unwise given the volatile nature of conflict between nations on this continent.”
“Hah! Even if all the northern and southern cities burn, Liscor will never fall!”
Relc slammed a fist on the table and then looked at Erin beseechingly.
“Can I at least have a drink? Blue fruit juice?”
“Oh, of course. Just a second.”
Erin hurried into the kitchen to grab glasses and the pitcher of freshly-squeezed juice. When she got back, she heard Klbkch and Relc arguing.
“—The certainty of Drakes in the impregnability of Liscor seems unwise. My people have brought up the need for increased vigilance to your governing body, but—”
“What’s the problem with the Watch, huh? You’re part of it. You know we can take care of any monsters that appear. And if an army does come here, so what? There’s only two ways into this valley. North and south. The mountains are practically impassable, and the Bloodfields guard the southern border. Even if an army comes through, the Floodplains will cut off any chance of siege. What don’t you get about that?”
“The north is still relatively unguarded. If the Humans were to unite under the Five Families—”
“Human cities?”
Erin leaned over the table and nearly spilled juice all over Relc. She looked at the two.
“There are Humans around here? Where?”
“To the north. Duh.”
Relc raised his eyebrows while Erin struggled not to throttle him. Klbkch glanced sideways at Erin and then back to his drink.
“And? Um, what do the Human cities do?”
Relc frowned as he poked at his claws with a fork as if testing how sharp it was.
“Who knows? They’re Humans. We have an okay relationship with them. They don’t come over here and stomp on our tails, and we don’t eat them.”
Erin sagged slightly. Klbkch kicked Relc under the table, and the Drake glanced up at Erin. His eyes widened.
“Oh. Um, uh, like I was saying to Klbkch, Liscor would never fall! Even if an army did attack from the north, we could just recall our army. Unless they could breach our walls in a week or less, the army would come running right back and smash them. See?”
“Is your army really that great?”
Relc nodded proudly as Klbkch indicated his agreement.
“The Liscorian army is famous. Don’t you know? We fight battles for other cities, and they pay us to kick our enemies to shreds. We field two thousand Drakes and a few hundred Gnolls at any given moment with officer classes. Those are just theofficers. Now, we don’t have that many soldiers per officer—sometimes as low as two, but that’s Liscor strategy. When there’s a big battle coming, it’s as many as eighteen per officer. Now, I know that sounds like a small army to you, but their average Level is 17. How about that, then?”
She wasn’t sure what to make of that. It sounded quite low.
“Um. It’s good?”
“Good? It’s great! The average level of soldiers in other armies is Level 8. Eight. They have low-level [Conscripts] or [Militia] who don’t see battles. Ours are veterans. Get it?”
She did. And when Relc put it that way, itwas impressive.
“So the, uh, Liscorian army is twice as strong as other armies?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“That is not entirely correct. Levels cannot replace tactics or numerical superiority, or equipment, for that matter. However, it is still a potent deterrent to larger forces. That allows the Liscorian army to fight as a mercenary force without prolonged engagements.”
“Exactly. Any army that runs up against ours knows that if things get serious, they’ll bleed for every soldier they bring down. That’s why we can earn so much money fighting abroad.”
“So are they here? In the city, I mean?”
“Nah. They’re almost always out on some campaign. The Liscorian army fights wherever. I think they were in the east, fighting near one of the Walled Cities. Oteslia, probably. They’re easy to siege.”
That all made a sort of sense to Erin, although she was having a hard time thinking of a parallel with her world. That was also because she hated history class. But she vaguely recalled the Mongols doing something similar. Or was it the Turks? The Swiss? Now she had no idea.
But Erin did have one question. She raised an eyebrow at Relc.
“So your army goes out and fights for money? Isn’t that dangerous if someone attacks here?”
“Exactly my point. If a stranger to our city can identify the weak spot so quickly, why is the populace so resistant to any suggestions regarding defense?”
Relc shook his head at both Klbkch and Erin angrily.
“Like I said, Liscor’s got a lot of natural defenses. Besides, what army in their right minds would want to attack the one city with an Antinium Hive?”
Erin sensed her food was nice and warm, but that last word bothered her. She lingered, her hands on the table.
“A what? An Antinium Hive? Is that unique?”
Relc opened his mouth to laugh in her face—then he saw her genuine expression and waved his hand at Klbkch. As for the Antinium, he gave Erin a long look as Relc explained.
“This city. Liscor. It’s home to a bunch of Antinium—not the violent kind, the peaceful ones. But they live here, so that makes it a Hive. One of six in the world. The Black Tide, the Antinium from Rhir—we are theonly city that allowed a Hive to be created. Because they helped fight off the Necromancer. ‘sprobably why no one wants to visit anymore. But hey, it makes us special. And the Ants do help a bit. Right, Klbkch?”
Erin turned to look at Klbkch. He nodded in agreement.
“We have a standing contract with the people of Liscor. In exchange for our presence, we provide services and goods to the city. It is a mutually beneficial arrangement.”
“Yeah, it was weird having the Antinium around, but it turned out to be a good idea.”
Relc shrugged.
“Anyways, the bottom line is that the Ants defend the city if we’re ever attacked and help out with construction and other jobs. They send some of their people to work in jobs, like Klbkch here. And in return, we let them stay.”
“That doesn’t sound too fair. What’s in it for the Antinium?”
Relc looked amused.
“No one kills them. You think the Hives would be allowedanywhere else? All five of the other ones are in the Hivelands, and we’d be at war with them if the Walled Cities thought they’d win. This is the only city where Drakes, Gnolls, and Antinium mix. It’s probably why we’re not in the middle of a third Antinium War. To everyone else, they’re the monsters who should be destroyed.”
Erin looked at Klbkch. He didn’t seem inclined to disagree, but she did.
“They seem pretty good to me. Although Klbkch is the only one I’ve ever met. But he doesn’t cause trouble or call Humans names or do anything bad. Unlike certain Drakes I could name.”
“Thank you, Miss Solstice.”
Relc glared as Klbkch bowed his head. He flicked his tail back and forth on the ground and growled.
“Oh, the Ants are great. They’re quiet, they don’t get drunk, and they’re about as interesting as wood—until one of them goes crazy.”
Klbkch nodded.
“The strain of madness has not been eliminated from the current generation. We have reduced the average instance of insanity by 14% per year, but we must remain vigilant.”
“What? Fourteen…what? Can you explain that bit to me?”
Klbkch nodded and opened his mandibles, but Relc’s stomach audibly growled. He poked Erin in the side, which made her jump and earned him a foot-stomp from Klbkch, but he didn’t seem to notice. He whined at Erin.
“You can talk about the crazy Ants later. But right now…food?”
Erin dithered, but relented at last at the desperate look in Relc’s eyes.
“Oh,fine.”
She went into the kitchen and began lugging out a pot of soup, a basket of warm bread—a bit too dry from being near the embers—and her standard pasta with sausage and onions. Relc began to salivate the instant he saw the food.
“Sorry it took so long. I wanted to tell you guys about the Goblins, so I forgot to heat stuff up.”
“No problem, no problem. Just put it here and all is forgiven. And oh yeah, we’ve got news too!”
Relc rubbed his claws together eagerly as Erin brought out plates and bowls.
“Ooh, is that soup? And bread? And pasta! That’s a lot of food!”
“Yeah, well, I was celebrating earlier. I cooked up a lot by accident.”
“Celebrathing? Celebrathing whu?”
It was hard to understand the Drake as he spoke through a mouth already bursting with food. Erin politely averted her eyes as she replied.
“Oh, you know. Not dying.”
“’S good! Good to celebrath!”
Relc washed down his mouthful of bread and cheese with a cup full of blue fruit juice. Erin had other liquids for sale now too; regular apple juice and a refreshing minty drink, but the Drake had developed a taste for the sticky blue fruit drink.
“I would like a bowl of soup too, if it would not trouble you, Miss Solstice.”
Erin glanced over at Klbkch and remembered. She put a frown on her face.
“Wait a minute. Is soup another one of those things Antinium can’t eat?”
Klbkch ducked his head.
“I assure you, soup is completely palatable to my kind.”
Erin glanced over at Relc, who nodded agreeably as he stuffed his mouth with pasta. She put her hands on her hips.
“Okay, but I’m still mad about the pasta thing. So tell me—and I hope to god this is true or I’ll be really upset. Tell me, do the Antinium eat bugs or worms or stuff like that?”
Klbkch looked up into Erin’s face and hesitated.
“I would not like to offend your sensibilities with a description of my diet, Miss Solstice—”
“Offend away, by all means.”
Again, he hesitated.
“My kind is fully capable of digesting most dishes eaten by humanoids. However, it is true that if offered we will eat creatures Humans and Drakes deem unsavory. We do not tend to consume such meals in public—”
“Right, no problem! Just wait here!”
Erin skidded into the kitchen and began banging pots and plates together. Relc and Klbkch exchanged a puzzled glance until she walked back into the room carrying a heaping bowl of black things as far away from her as she could.
“Whath tha?”
Gingerly, Erin set the bowl full of Acid Flies on the table. Relc looked at it curiously, but Klbkch leaned towards the bowl as if suddenly hypnotized.
“These are—well, they’re these flying acid bugs that I found. I wasn’t sure if you’d want it, Klbkch, but I thought it was worth a try and—”
Klbkch picked up a spoon and began shoveling the black insect torsos into his ‘mouth’. Erin shut up. She also looked away. As much as she liked Klbkch, thecrunching sounds and the sight of him eating the flies was hard to stomach.
“Looksh good.”
Relc swallowed his mouthful and reached out a hand. Without missing a beat, Klbkch slapped it away from his bowl. Both Relc and Erin stared in surprise at Klbkch.
“Um, can I have a bowl too, Erin?”
“You want some? Oh, uh, do lizards—”
Relc glared, and Erin amended her words hastily.
“—Drakes like bugs?”
“Not as much as this guy, but I wouldn’t mind trying some. I’ve eaten worse on campaign.”
Dutifully, Erin brought another bowl out. Relc tasted the bugs and munched a few down experimentally.
“Ooh, nice and crunchy! I didn’t know you could eat these things. How’d you manage to get rid of all the acid?”
“It’s a long story. It involves blood and—actually, I’d rather hear your news. What is it?”
Relc looked blank. Then he snapped his fingers. Erin was surprised he could with his scaly hands.
“Right, oh yeah. It’s terrible news! Guess what? Some idiot found a bunch of ruins to the northeast of the city, and it’s apparently some ancient dungeon! Now, every adventurer in miles is coming here to explore it!”
Erin frowned.
“Is that a bad thing? I thought finding old ruins and exploring them is what adventurers do. It’s what happens in all the games I, uh—well, it’s what adventurers do, right? Doesn’t Liscor have an Adventurer’s Guild?”
“Yeah, but they don’t have many members. Not many idiots in our city bother becoming adventurers since there’s not much to do around here. If you want to fight, you join the army or the Watch. It’s Humans who are the stupid—um…uh…”
Erin pretended not to hear that.
“You don’t like adventurers, is that what I’m hearing? Why? Don’t they kill monsters?”
“Yeah, and they cause trouble. They pick fights when they’re drunk, they run away from tough monsters, and they’re rude to guardsmen.”
Relc slammed his cup down on the table.
“Adventurers. I hate them so much.”
Klbkch nodded. He dropped his spoon into his bowl with aclatter. Erin blinked and looked down. The bowl she’d filled was huge, twice as big as a soup bowl. He held it up to her, empty.
“Another serving, if you please, Miss Solstice. It is true such sites bring increased commerce to our city, but the negative effects of so many adventurers cannot be discounted.”
Erin took Klbkch’s bowl and headed into the kitchen. She refilled it with the jar of Acid Flies and accidentally spilled some on the floor as she ladled them into the bowl. After a moment’s hesitation, Erin picked them up and tossed them in Klbkch’s bowl. She figured it probably wouldn’t bother him. The floor was clean, anyways. Flies were dirty things.
“Okay, so this is big news. But why are they all coming here? Are these ruins that amazing?”
Relc had pushed aside his bowl of Acid Flies for more pasta and soup. Erin caught Klbkch munching down on those as she slid him his refilled bowl of Acid Flies.
“Well, that’s the thing. No one knows what’s in those ruins. It could be nothing, but it also could be a ton of magical artifacts and treasure. It’s that big of a dungeon, apparently. Most ruins, well, they’re already explored or too dangerous to dive further into. A new spot like this is going to bring hundreds of idiots into Liscor, and guess who gets to watch them to make sure they don’t cause trouble?”
“You?”
“Exactly! It’s a pain in the tail, and we’re busy enough as it is. Now’s usually the time when we hire new recruits, so we’re going to be understaffed and working overtime.”
“It is a troublesome predicament.”
Klbkch didn’t stop eating as he spoke, which created an oddcrunching background to his words, which already had a clicking nature to them.
“Naturally, the influx of adventuring parties leads to more trouble. However, it will also bring in needed trade and many merchants who seek to do business. Thus, while guardsmen such as Relc and myself find the situation hard to manage, the city is far more positive about these findings. Also, may I trouble you for another plate?”
Erin blinked down at the empty bowl.
“I just refilled that. You really like those flies, don’t you?”
Klbkch nodded.
“It is…surprising. I had not known the Acid Flies of this region were so…tasty. Until this moment, I had never attempted to consume one.”
“Yeah, I’ve never seen you eat like that, Klb! You’re eating like one of those pigs! Or a Gnoll!”
Relc laughed at Klbkch around a full mouth of food. Both Erin and Klbkch raised their hands to shield themselves from the splatter.
“Well, if you like it so much, I guess I’m in business!”
Erin grinned happily.
“I had no idea it would be such a huge hit. It almost makes everything I had to do to get these buggers worth it. Almost.”
“Was it difficult?”
“Very. But hey, if I’m the only one who can catch these suckers, I can actually attract some customers! Klbkch, would you mind telling some of your friends about my inn? I’d love to have some more business.”
Klbkch visibly hesitated.
“Do you mean for me to bring others of my kind, Miss Solstice?”
She shrugged.
“Yeah. Why not? If you liked the flies so much, I’m sure your friends would love them too. I’ve got a good system for harvesting them too—make them explodebefore you start carrying the glass jars around.”
Again, Klbkch hesitated.
“I am not sure that would be too…wise.”
“Why not?”
Relc was silent as he slurped down the last of his pasta, but he was watching Klbkch carefully from the corner of his eye.
“My fellow…Workers are not as used to dealing with other species as I. It would be imprudent to bother you with their presence.”
“Hey, if they’re like you, I wouldn’t mind it. And if they don’t want to talk to me, I can just serve them more flies.”
Klbkch looked uncomfortable.
“I would not want to put you to any inconvenience.”
“Isn’t that what being an innkeeper is all about? Besides, I deal with Pisces. Come on. Bring a few of your friends, and I’ll serve you Acid Flies until you explode.”
“Yeah, what’s the worst that could happen?”
Relc nodded. He slurped down his pasta and thumped Klbkch on the back. Jovially. Erin and Klbkch glared at him. Deliberately, Erin began knocking against the hard wood of the table.
“Has no one here heard of Murphy’s Law?”
“What’s that?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T02:46:28)
Leave a tpyo for things going wrong.
Grault (2023-03-15T05:50:55)
The city hosts many pigs, sheep, horses—
Theydo have horses… And Runners don’t use them, for some reason.
Kris (2023-03-19T14:33:44)
Well there is Tritel, the Moonlight Rider, mentioned in 1.20R, but I supposed that doesn’t explicitly state that he uses a horse.
Axel Terizaki (2023-03-26T08:00:33)
We fight battles for other cities, and they pay us to kick our enemies to shreds
Wouldn’t it be more logical if he said “and they pay us to kick their enemies” ? :)
Salamander (2023-08-10T17:51:51)
Horses are likely very expensive though. Most Runners probably wouldn’t be wealthy enough to own and take care of one and they’re not really necessary with running skills for smaller deliveries.
Toni (2023-11-24T16:58:03)
I would imagine horses are simply unnecessary for most. Or simply not useful. With skills and levels, the better runners are probably able to keep even pace or even outpace a horse on their own.
probably the only real use for horses is for carriages and larger hauls that any individual couldn’t simply carry themselves
Mr anderson (2024-09-04T01:39:10)
He’s top tier, let’s be honest he’s going to be riding around on a dragon or something, it’ll probably at least have flight capability naturally or through items for cross continental delivery
Night Owl (2025-02-09T08:50:45)
This was one of the best ch so far
Jade Isentry (2025-12-09T01:29:05)
Modern ridable horses weren’t always a thing, even here in real-life Earth. They had to be bred that way. If you had suggested riding a horse into battle to someone in say… roman/greek/biblical times? They probably would have laughed at you.
Having a horse pull something? Like a chariot, wagon, or a plow? Sure. But saddling one up and riding on its back? That didn’t come until much later in history, I’m pretty sure.
So, when you consider that [Runner] classes with [Runner] skills already gave this world a perfectly viable solution, they probably never even thought to breed and develop horse riding as a thing. As they say, necessity is the mother of invention.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.25
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-25/

The Hive was always dark. Always secluded from the light of the surface above. Even in the grandest chamber, where the two spoke—it was so dim as to disconcert every species but theirs.
Neither one minded. They had lived underground for ages before ever bothering to reach the surface. In the subterranean passages and the criss-crossing tunnels of the Hive of the Antinium in Liscor, two beings spoke.
One of them was female. The other was male. Klbkch. The female shifted, and in the darkness, her deep voice rumbled through the air.
“Do I understand you correctly, Klbkch? Do you truly believe sending Workers above is wise? If they become Aberration all together, Liscor’s Council will not remain silent. Have you confidence in this venture?”
Her voice was deep, and she spoke with more than mundane words. She was tired, so tired that even as she reclined, supine, her voice wearied, she seemed ready to fall asleep. Yet there was a core of will that never left her.
Sometimes, he thought she was the stronger of the two of them, for all she did not leave this place and labored endlessly. But then—
He was older. Older and wearier by far. Klbkch shook his head. He patiently tried to explain the necessity to her, and he could not articulate it even to himself.
“No, my Queen. I merely request that a few of the Workers—perhaps ten or twenty—may be allowed to leave the city in my care. They would visit a local inn for several hours before returning.”
“Interesting. So you have faith this venture may be rewarded?”
The word rolled outwards, rich, darkly velvet with hidden connotation and meaning. The Queen paused, and Klbkch hesitated.
“I regret that this is not my initiative, my Queen. She—the innkeeper of which I spoke—she requested it of me. I am merely representing our Hive in a unique opportunity. Not necessarily one I have faith in for the success we hope for.”
“Ah. I see.”
Surprise flicked through the female’s deep voice as it echoed in the cavernous chamber. Surprise and regret. But then she latched onto something else that was fascinating.
“This Human did? What species would desire the presence of Workers if not to work?”
That was what made Klbkch so interested himself. He lifted an antenna, like one lifted a finger.
“She did not ask for the Workers specifically. Rather, she was inclined to sell foodstuffs to our people. Acid Flies. She wishes to earn money by gaining our business.”
“And this Human is genuine? She does not fear the Antinium?”
“To the best of my knowledge and ability, I believe her so. Nor does she fear us, my Queen. It is as if she has no past with nor knowledge of the Black Tide.”
Again, surprise was the primary emotion in the female’s voice.
“And you think her worth spending your time and the Hive’s effort upon, even risking an Aberration.”
Klbkch hesitated. He bowed his head in the direction of the female.
“Her name is Erin Solstice, my Queen. And I believe—yes, I believe the experience may help further our plan in some small way. At the very least, it would help increase her trust of our kind. A rare opportunity.”
“And why should I entertain her request?”
Now she sounded petty. Tired and petty, for she saw no value in this. And he could not fault her, but Klbkch spread his hands outward. They were humanoid hands, at least in that they resembled them more than an insect’s feelers. The same could not be said of the appendages of the Queen.
“My Queen, do we no longer seek to improve relations with other species? Is this not why Liscor’s Hive was founded at such great effort? Drakes are one species; Humans would be a rare boon, even if she was but one representative predisposed to look kindly on us.”
The female moved in the darkness. Her voice changed, hissing softly in regret and frustration. Sheclicked in her distress.
“The plan has not changed, Klbkch. But we have. And not in the ways that we desire. I am weary, and you—ten years. No; the change comes from the others. The Grand Queen speaks. The other Queens once again question our lack of success.”
Klbkch looked up. His hands moved unconsciously to the twin swords at his waist. Not that he would bear blades against them. It was a sign of his emotions, a rare display.
“…Are any of their objections backed by orders? Have Xrn or Wrymvr made any objections of their own known?”
She waved a languid feeler at him.
“Not as such. Calm yourself, my Prognugator. My authority is undiminished, such as it is. And yet. The Queens move, Klbkch. They are waiting for an opening, and they would sacrifice us if they saw a chance to strike.”
The male Antinium looked up sharply. The antennae on his head twitched.
“Is that the position of the Grand Queen? If I may offer my counsel, that would be…unwise. The Hives are not ready.”
She nodded in the blackness.
“Yes. But they grow impatient with time. The Grand Queen speaks more than she acts. However, she is correct. We cannot continue this endeavor for nothing to show for it. Ten years. They speak of recalling us, idly for now. But they do speak. That is why I will allow this risk. Take twelve Workers. Let them visit this Solstice child. It may harm, but we have been a decade of failure.”
Her head bowed. Klbkch knelt on one segmented knee.
“Thank you, my Queen. I will not betray your trust in me.”
A great sigh echoed through the room, shifting Klbkch’s antennae as the air moved.
“Of that, I have no doubt. But I need more than your loyalty. Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium. I must have success. Can you promise me that?”
Her voice was so longing. Despair rang in every tone. Ten years, and ten years of failure for the Free Antinium and their Hive, despite their lofty boasts when they left. Klbkch felt it too. He was still as he knelt before her. Then Klbkch looked up and shook his head slowly.
“I cannot. But I will try.”
“Very well. Try, then.”
Klbkch nodded. He stood and began to stride out of the room with quick, light movements.
“Klbkch.”
He turned. In the darkness, a large feeler pointed at him, and a titanic shape moved. A weary voice spoke.
“Something must be done in the next few years. Some—tangible success. Or I will accede to the will of the others and pursue another project in the Hivelands.”
For a second, Klbkch froze. If she said that, she who had opposed the other five to do this? She who believed in everything? He looked at the Queen and bowed his head.
She was giving up, and he could not blame her.
“I will ensure that all goes well, my Queen. Erin Solstice is not hostile to our kind. I believe she will be a positive influence for them.”
“Then go. But there is one more thing I ask of you.”
“Yes, my Queen?”
The weary head rose, and the exhausted Antinium latched onto something Klbkch had mentioned. A loudclack as she moved her mandibles.
“Ahem. These flies…how do they taste?”
“I shall bring you a sample, my Queen.”
“Good.”
——
Erin was making a list.
“Okay, do I have everything? Let’s go over it again. Larder? Stocked. Check! Silverware? Lots of it, even if it’s not silver. Check!”
She turned and bustled over to another table.
“Blue fruit juice? Check. Four full pitchers and a basket of blue fruits.”
She’d stripped several trees in preparation for tonight. At this point, she’d eaten nearly half of the fruit in the orchard. Sooner or later, she’d run out of blue fruit, which might be a problem. How long did it take for the trees to grow new fruit? Maybe Pisces would know.
“Acid Flies? Check. Dead? Double check.”
It was almost sad how easily she caught them in her floating jar traps. Almost. Erin made sure they’d all exploded before she rolled them onto the grass. She thought the flat fish in the water were helping—they kept bumping into the jars, trying to eat the flies. She supposed that they might one day break the thick glass.
“Great. Bathe upstream from the glass jars from now on.”
She should also probably put warning signs up. Whom they might be warning, Erin had no idea. A certain Human necromancer stayed well away from the glass jars, and she wasn’t sure if Goblins could read. Either way, her list continued.
“Pasta? Wait, I don’t need any pasta.”
Unless Relc dropped by. But from what the Drake told her, he didn’t like Antinium besides Klbkch, so that was an outside chance. Erin put a pot on the stove anyways. She could always eat it.
The lovely thing about being near a city was that you didn’t have to make your own pasta. Instead, you could just buy it from an odd Gnoll-lady who knew exactly when you were on your period. In other words, there were advantages and disadvantages to living near a city.
“Okay. That’s about it. I’ve got bread in case Pisces comes by, and I even have cheese. Lovely, smelly cheese. Possibly from cows. And I just bet Klbkch is lactose intolerant too.”
Her larder was fully stocked, her plates and cups were clean, and she’d even gotten out the chess board and set it up. She thought Klbkch might be up for a game or two—that was, if she wasn’t busy feeding flies to her customers.
For a moment, Erin had to put her head against a wall and wonder how she’d gotten to this point in her life. A girl from Michigan shouldnot think it was normal to sell dead fly torsos to walking ant-people for silver coins. She was also probably ripping them off, but Klbkch seemed willing to pay whatever it took for the flies. He’d eaten six bowls before he’d walked out.
Now all Erin had to do was wait until Klbkch came by with his promised friends. He said they’d come by as soon as they finished with their work. Were they all guardsmen? Erin had forgotten to ask.
Someone knocked on the inn’s door. Erin turned and opened the door with a big smile.
“Hi Klb—oh.”
The group of Goblins all took a nervous step back as Erin stared down at them. The eight—no, nine of them clustered together and shoved at their leader, a small Goblin wearing rags. Erin remembered.
“It’s—it’s you. Do you, um, want something?”
The ragged Goblin awkwardly thrust out a hand at Erin. She blinked down at the pile of dirty copper and silver coins in the small palm.
“Oh. Oh! You want to eat, right?”
The Goblin nodded stiffly. Erin opened the door and gestured inside.
“Right then, come in.”
The ragged Goblin hesitated. It thrust the coins at her once more.
Erin recognized the raggedy Goblin as the one she’d met first, and the others were new—maybe two were of the original four she’d found?
But this Goblin, the small one, Erin knew. So she smiled.
“Hey, Rags. How’s it going?”
That was her nickname for the Goblin who had the most tattered clothing. Her companions fidgeted behind Rags and glanced around. They seemed nervous, as if not certain this was wise, but Erin went on, voice calm.
“Do you want something in particular?”
The Goblin stared at Erin’s menu and then shook her head urgently. She thrust the coins forwards, and Erin let her pour them into her palms. Once again, another day of silence, so Erin filled it.
“How about I take the money, and I’ll feed you until it runs out, okay?”
Again, Erin received a blank look, but Rags seemed relieved when she took the money. Erin gingerly put the filthy pile of coins on the inn’s bar counter and wished she had hot water to go with the soap.
“Okay. Right. This isn’t thebest time, but why don’t you have a seat over here with your friends?”
The Goblins meekly wandered over to the table Erin was pointing at and sat down. She hesitated. What next?
“Right, food.”
All nine heads shot up, and the Goblins stared at Erin. The ones she’d fed before were already drooling onto the table. It was the little Goblin, the Rags one, who watched Erin sharply as she hurried around.
“Give me five—ten minutes, and I’ll have all you can eat. I just need to put on another pot. And make some soup. But I’ve got bread!”
Erin turned. Okay, she’d stuff their faces quickly. She dashed into the kitchen and reemerged with a loaf of fresh bread she’d bought and some cheese and sausage. The Goblins stared hungrily as Erin began dumping plates in front of them. They flinched back from her, though, and when she handed them a fork, they ducked down as if they thought she were going to stab them with it.
“You can eat this while I get more food, okay?”
The Goblins stared at the food. Rags cautiously reached for the bread, and Erin grabbed her hand. All the Goblins flinched as one, and Rags recoiled, eyes wide, but Erin was staring at the filthy claws.
“Oh, er. Sorry about that. I’ll slice it up for you. I have water and soap. Here—”
Confused, the Goblins watched Erin dart into the kitchen again. They eyed the wonderful-smelling bread, meat, and strange yellow thing, and wondered if they could eat it. Then they looked up andscreamed as Erin walked back into the room with a kitchen knife and a bucket.
“Oh no, don’t run! I’m not going to hurt you!”
Erin waved her hands frantically and nearly poked herself with the knife. The Goblins halted in their mad rush out the door. Erin put the bucket on another table and took a bar of soap and the dustrag out of her pocket.
“I’m just going to cut this food for you. See? And this is to wash your hands.Wash your hands. Because they’re gross.”
She slowly and carefully went over to the food and sliced it up into smaller pieces. Erin smiled at the Goblins as they suspiciously moved back to the table. Rags was eying Erin with deep, deep distrust for the knife. But she was also eying the water and soap with clear confusion. Erin stepped back.
“And now I’ll put the knife away. No more pointy thing. You don’t have to worry; you’ll be safe here. Okay? But wash your hands. It’s unhygienic.”
She gave them another reassuring smile. That was the precise moment when Klbkch entered the inn, followed closely by a group of Antinium. Erin’s smile froze on her lips.
Klbkch froze too, and the other tall, identical brown and black insects behind him instantly halted in their tracks. The Goblins were petrified in their seats, but half immediately began edging towards the nearest window.
Erin waved frantically at Klbkch. Then she turned towards the Goblins and gave them another reassuring smile.
“Don’t worry! Don’t worry. These people aren’t here to hurt you. They’re guests. They’re going to eat too, understand?”
They hesitated, but Rags seemed to be made of sterner stuff than her larger comrades. She returned to her seat. And it was a she, Erin was sure of it. The other Goblins—all but one of whom were boys—didn’t wear anything on their upper torso. They barely wore anything to cover their privates.
She shepherded them back to their seats and tried not to look at Goblin nether regions as their loincloths shifted in unfortunate ways. There was a reason pants were invented.
“Go ahead and eat as much as you want.”
Again, the Goblins glanced nervously at the Antinium, but now that the initial scare was over, the fresh food called to them. There was a moment’s hesitation, then Rags grabbed a piece of sausage, and the Goblins began gobbling all the food on the table with their hands.
She winced at the mess, but at least they were occupied. Erin edged back to Klbkch, who was still waiting with his group of Antinium.
“Hi, Klbkch. Sorry about the confusion. I had a few visitors pop by unexpectedly.”
“There is no problem, Miss Solstice. I have brought others of my kind as you requested.”
Klbkch nodded to Erin and gestured to the silent Antinium behind him. Erin eyed her new guests somewhat apprehensively.
They were like Klbkch and not like him at the same time. Theywere like each other though. Erin couldn’t tell one from the other, and all twelve of these other Antinium stood and moved like one unit.
What made her stare was that they were identical to Klbkch. They had the same brown carapace and waving antennae. Four arms, beetle shell—but you could say that of Humans.
What was meant by identical wasexactly the same. Unlike a Human, who had a world of variation in hair and lips, even of the same color, the Antinium were carbon copies of one another.
Only Klbkch stood out because of his swords at his waist and armor and belt. The other Workers silently lined up, standing in two neat rows. And they also seemed disinclined to talk. Each one of the Antinium stared at Klbkch rather than look at Erin.
“Are they—are they your friends? Or other guardsmen?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“I am afraid you are under a misapprehension. These are Workers, Miss Solstice. They are not fellow guardsmen—rather, they perform tasks within the Antinium section of the city. I took them because you wished for more customers, but I have not interacted with them before.”
“Oh. So they’re not your friends?”
Klbkch opened and closed his mandibles a few times. He turned around and stared at the Workers before turning to Erin. He clacked his mandibles a few times, and then, to her astonishment, made a laughing sound.
“Ha. Hahahaha. That is a good joke, Miss Erin. No, these are Workers. They will behave themselves under my supervision.”
She was so surprised that she made no response, which Klbkch took as encouragement. He turned towards the standing group of Worker Antinium and pointed to a few of the tables.
“You have entered an inn. The polite protocol is to introduce oneself and then take a seat. I will handle your greetings. Move to those tables.”
They obediently walked over to each table. At first, they all crowded around one, but Klbkch impatiently directed them so the Antinium stood four to a table.
“Sit!”
Klbkch snapped at the other Antinium. They instantly sat in the chairs. Erin’s smile slipped even further as Klbkch began ordering them about with curt, clipped commands.
He treated the other Antinium like—well, like sheep. Or…like children. Idiotic children you couldn’t trust to pick up a fork without stabbing themselves in the eye. Yes, that was it.
Erin watched Klbkch out of the corner of her eyes as he lectured the other ‘Workers.’ He was telling them how to use a spoon. And how to drink from a cup. And how to request another bowl of flies.
Flies. They stared at the black insects, and even the Goblins looked confused, if not horrified by the loaded bowls. Black insects, dead and staring andicky, but Erin brought them out. 
“Um, thanks, Klbkch. Did you want me to get the food now? I’ve got the Acid Flies of course, but I also have pasta—”
Erin’s eyes widened.
“Oh no! The pasta!”
The Goblins and Antinium watched as Erin dashed into the kitchen to salvage the over-boiled noodles. She came out a few minutes later holding plates of pasta with chopped bits of sausage and onion, which she placed in front of the Goblins.
“Use forks. Got it? Your friend here knows how to use forks.”
Erin pointed at the silverware and then started bringing out bowl after bowl of the Acid Flies she’d prepared. She set them down in front of the Antinium Workers awkwardly. They moved out of her way, but didn’t say anything.
That was, until Klbkch snapped at them, and then all twelve murmured ‘thank you’ every time Erin brought out a plate and cups.
They could speak! Their voices sounded like Klbkch’s—but flat. Lacking intonation or emotion. And that was the only thing they ever said. They moved when spoken to and did whatever Klbkch said—beyond that, they just waited, as if they were robots expecting input. Yet they were people, right?
So was this an awkward moment? Yes. Erin was redefining the word for herself at the moment.
However, she placed all the bowls in front of the twelve Workers, and the Antinium finally began to eat on Klbkch’s command. At least there they appeared to be somewhat enthusiastic, because they began gobbling the Acid Flies down with commendable speed, shoveling them past their mandibles with a spoon and crunching the insects up. But for that, they ate in silence, which was also unnerving. At least they were eating.
Erin breathed a sigh of relief. And the door to the inn swung open.
A familiar Drake poked his head into the room. He immediately launched into what sounded like a prepared speech as he awkwardly held a chess set in front of him.
“Good evening, Miss Erin Solstice! I hope you don’t mind me dropping by, but I was wondering if you’d like to play a game of ch—”
Olesm paused and stared around the silent room. His jaw dropped as he saw the Goblins. When he saw Klbkch and the other Antinium, it dropped further. He slowly put one clawed hand on the door.
“…Is this a bad time?”
——
Erin had gone to funerals. Well, she’d attended a funeral. And while they were solemn, sad occasions, she could rightly say that she’d visited funerals that were noisier than her inn at the moment.
At least funerals had coughing people, the occasional sniffling, fidgeting children, and crying babies. In the Wandering Inn, all Erin could hear was the mastication of Goblins as they gobbled their food or the quietcracking as the Antinium chewed down their Acid Flies and clicked their mandibles together.
Chomp. Chomp. Click. Chomp.
Erin stared from the Antinium to the Goblins with a desperately cheerful smile plastered on her face. Neither side looked at the other directly, but she had the distinct impression they were silently sizing each other up. The Goblins to run away, the Antinium…well, they were just looking.
The atmosphere was so tense you could—well, Erin was pretty sure pulling a knife out would be a disaster. The Goblins were nervously eying the Antinium, and the Antinium were frighteningly silent and uniform. They ate and moved in almost perfect synchronization.
Erin circulated the room, pitcher of fruit juice in hand. She filled cups, took away plates and refilled them with food, and instructed Goblinsnot to pick their noses. It felt like being a waitress for an entire restaurant by herself, but Erin was up to the challenge. At least, she hoped she was.
She wasn’t taking orders or cleaning up plates yet. All she was really doing was making sure there was food in front of her guests. The Goblins were easy. They ate anything she put in front of them. They were also terrified of Klbkch, the Antinium, Olesm, and Erin.
Only the one with ragged clothing, the tiny one, seemed brave enough to inspect the soap after Erin made them wash their hands. She kept peering around, surreptitiously, then springing to attention and pretending to be eating. Then Erin would catch her peeking at the menu and moving her lips, as if trying to read it.
But the Workers? They were hard. Erin had to make sure none of them had empty bowls or cups or they’d just stop eating. They didn’t even ask for refills by themselves.
In a lull between serving, Erin stopped in front of Klbkch and Olesm’s table. The two were talking quietly together, which made them exceptionally noisy in the dead silence.
“How’re you two boys doing?”
Both Olesm and Klbkch looked at each other to make sure they were the ones Erin was talking to. Olesm gave her a weak smile.
“I’m quite well, Miss Solstice. Or—may I call you Erin?”
“Please. I’m getting sick of being called Miss Solstice. I feel like my mom.”
“My deepest apologies. I was not aware this was an insult to your culture.”
Klbkch bowed his head, which made Erin feel guilty. She just meant her mom…
Her mom. Erin’s heart and mind twinged, and she changed the subject fast.
“Are you two enjoying your meal? Anything I can get you?”
“Another glass of the blue juice perhaps?”
Olesm raised his glass, and Erin topped it off. He smiled at her.
“It is quite tasty.”
“Thanks.”
They both paused awkwardly. They were just as bad as the Goblins and Workers! Olesm glanced around the inn and fidgeted.
“Do you—do you always serve Goblins in your inn? I saw the sign, but I must admit, this is the first time I’ve ever seen a Goblin not trying to stab someone or running away. They’re monsters, you know.”
He tried to whisper it, but in the silent inn, his voice carried. As one, the Goblins stopped eating and stared over at Olesm. He flinched. Yet he gave Erin a look as if she had just invited hyenas into her inn. She gave him a level stare and decided to start with the basics.
“Um, no. They’re new here too.”
“Oh, I see.”
More silence. Erin glanced down at the table. The Drake Tactician had brought along his chess board, and although he’d set it aside for the food, she saw him glancing at it now and then. To break the ice, and because she thought she might die of awkwardness, Erin did the only thing that came to mind. The most obvious thing—at least, to her.
“How about a game of chess? Anyone want to play?”
Klbkch and Olesm looked up.
“Oh, I would love to play—”
Olesm caught himself. He glanced around guiltily at the other diners.
“But I wouldn’t want to take you away from your work. Perhaps another time.”
He looked so downcast that Erin wanted to pat him on the head. She thought for a second and then smiled.
“Oh, don’t worry. We can still make it work. I’ll play youand serve food.”
Both Klbkch and Olesm eyed her incredulously. Erin grinned.
“I don’t suppose either of you are familiar with chess notation?”
——
Two minutes later, the most interesting thing was happening. Workers and Goblins watched as Erin stood with her back to the chess board. It was all set up.
Both the littlest Goblin and the Worker who swept were here. It was pure coincidence that Klbkch had ordered the same group of Workers who had dug out the door to come to the inn—or perhaps he had simply found it easiest to take them out since they had no assignments yet.
As for the littlest Goblin, she’d brought a bunch of other Goblins to show them that the one who had killed the Chieftain was not…not…
She had brought them here tosee. Many hated the Human. But she fed them. She was…more than the death of the Chieftain and two Goblins, and because the littlest Goblin said it, some listened.
Not all. Even the littlest Goblin didn’t know if the Human was good—she hung out with the Ant monsters! The most terrifying deaths who came from below if you went to the wrong places. And she kept calling the littlest Goblin a stupid name.
‘Rags.’ What did that mean? Yet the littlest Goblin watched avidly because she was as curious as the listening Workers. The Workers did not understand this inn. The rules were unknown to them and Klbkch kept correcting them. They were terrified of doing something wrong and becoming Aberrations, but now they heard something fascinating. Something…with clear rules that madesense.
Intriguing. The [Innkeeper] was speaking to Olesm, who was fiddling with the chess board, and she was giving instructions to him and Klbkch, but also the inn at large.
“Okay, so you’ve moved your pawn up two spots. That’s E4, so just tell me you’re moving a pawn to E4, got it? And when I want to move, I’ll let you know by saying, oh, pawn to D5.”
Olesm nodded and glanced down at the chess board. He carefully moved the black pawn up two spots and looked up at Erin. She nodded.
“Got it?”
“I believe so, Erin.”
“Right. Let’s play!”
Erin spun away from Olesm and grabbed a cup and filled it. Across the room, Klbkch and Olesm bent over the chess board and conferred. Olesm moved a piece.
“Pawn, ah, Pawn to F3, Erin.”
“Got it! Knight to C6!”
Erin concentrated on the game as she walked around the inn. She wasn’t conscious of how the Goblins slowed in their eating and the Antinium Workers paused from their meal to follow her around the room. Erin’s thoughts focused, and as she mechanically took plates and filled them with food, her mind focused on only one thing.
The game. Some called golf the greatest game ever played. They might be right. But Erin loved chess.
She could even play it in her head.
——
“Bishop to D6.”
“Hm. In that case, I’ll move…um, I believe that’s Pawn to D4.”
“Queen to H4! Check!”
Erin said it instantly and grinned to herself. She heard Olesm groan in dismay.
“Ah. Then—then Pawn to G3?”
Again, Erin replied almost before he’d finished speaking.
“Bishop takes Pawn at G3!”
“Pawn takes Bishop at G3.”
“And I’ll take your Rook at H1.”
Erin grinned to herself as Olesmhissed in distress. In her mind’s eye, she saw her queen piece sitting in the corner of Olesm’s side of the board, nestling right up against all of his lovely, undefended pieces.
The game continued, but only as mop-up. Erin happily munched away at Olesm’s pieces with her queen. He eventually managed to take hers out with his own, but only after he’d lost another knight and a bishop. By then, Erin had more pieces than he did on the board and in better positions, too.
“I concede.”
Olesm tipped over his king and stared despondently at the board. Erin paused serving sliced up sausage to the Goblins long enough to see Klbkch pat Olesm on the shoulder consolingly.
“It was a good game.”
The Drake shook his head.
“You do me too much credit. I made several errors that cost me many pieces. But I believe you had me from the start. Without looking at the board once! Would you do the kindness of showing me where I made mistakes?”
He seemed shaken, but Erin was delighted to play the game. Much less in her head! She felt like a kid again, and she used to do this all the time in the school bus or when she was bored. These days, you could do everything on a phone, but…she beamed happily, as only someone who loved the game could.
“Of course.”
Erin walked over to the table. She rearranged the board until it was back to normal and then moved Olesm’s pawn up two spaces.
“You started out with a classic: the King’s Pawn Opening. That was a good move.”
Olesm looked blankly down at the board.
“I just moved my pawn to E4. Was that truly a noteworthy move to have a strategy named after it?”
Erin nodded happily.
“Oh, it’s a classic. Did you know almost a quarter of all chess games start with it? It’s great for taking the center spaces, but unfortunately for you, I love playing against that move.”
Klbkch raised one hand.
“Do you mean to say that there are established counters to this opening? And that this move is a chronicled…strategy? I had not heard of that.”
Neither had Olesm, but Erin was too enthusiastic to notice Klbkch’s cautionary tone or Olesm’s confounded one. She nodded and pushed a black pawn forwards.
“Oh, there are lots of good strategies. I countered with an old favorite—the Sicilian Defense. It’s great against the King’s Pawn, but you made a mistake when you moved that pawn up to F3. It doesn’t open up your side for many pieces to get out, and you really want a knight to put pressure on my side of the board. Of course, you could try to take my pawn, but that leaves your center open. Most players try to push forwards aggressively, but that’s why the Sicilian Defense works so well since it means you have to lose a pawn if you want to push into the other side.”
Erin paused and looked around the inn. Olesm was wearing a half-glazed, half-delighted expression on his face. The Goblins and all the Antinium, including Klbkch, were staring at her, open-mouthed.
“Uh, sorry. I tend to lecture when I get too into chess.”
“No—don’t worry in the slightest, Miss Erin.”
Olesm shook his head and smiled at her. His eyes were alive with interest, and she noticed his tail wagging like a dog’s on the ground.
“You have such a deep understanding of this game! How is it that you know so much about chess? I only heard about it when someone told me the Titan was playing it a few years ago, yet you say there arestrategies already in place?”
“Yes?”
Erin crossed her fingers as Olesm shook his head. Klbkch clacked his mandibles.
“…I believe there are players of this game on every continent, Olesm. We appear to be in the presence of a master.”
“Indeed, indeed! I suppose it’s arrogance to think that I knew everything. Why, they might be doing this in a Walled City like Pallass…and you’re kind enough to keep me from looking like some back-country rube. Thank you, Miss Solstice.”
Erin nodded at Klbkch in relief, and he twitched a mandible at her. She really hoped she wouldn’t have to explain being from another world. Erin glanced at Klbkch and wondered if she should play him next. Then she looked at Olesm and Klbkch together and had an idea.
She grinned wickedly.
“Yeah, I love playing chess. In fact, I’ll play both of you at the same time, if you want. We have two boards, after all.”
Olesm and Klbkch shared a glance. Both frowned slightly. Well, Olesm frowned and Erin had the distinct impression that Klbkch was frowning.
“Aren’t you taking us a bit too lightly, Erin?”
She blinked innocently at Olesm.
“Me? Of course not. But I bet I can play both of you while serving drinks and food and win against at least one. Want to test my theory?”
They did. Erin grinned to herself as both Olesm and Klbkch set up their pieces on opposite sides of the room. Each player stared intently at their board. She could practically feel the intensity coming off of each. It reminded her of the adults she used to play as a kid. No one liked being trash-talked by a middle schooler. It was hard for her to keep a straight face.
Klbkch moved first. Erin stared at his board and then decided to move a piece on Olesm’s board while she thought. She circulated the room, filling up the glasses with what little fruit juice she had left. When Olesm made his move, Erin decided to hit Klbkch with a knight. And then she went back into the kitchen for more pasta. Those Goblins couldeat.
The games continued as Erin filled up bowls with the dead flies and handed them out to the Workers. They happily chomped down the flies, but she had the distinct impression they were watching as she travelled back and forth between Klbkch and Olesm’s boards.
Occasionally, Erin would wait while one of the other two players moved a piece, but when she did move from board to board, she attacked fast, seemingly without pausing to think. She could see Klbkch and Olesm watching her as much as the board, but she effortlessly continued playing both players while serving her guests.
Her audience watched the dual games intently. Erin kept an eye on them as well and saw both Rags and the Antinium Workers staring hard at Klbkch and Olesm’s pieces. The Goblin’s eyes narrowed, and the Antinium appeared confused. Erin smiled to herself, but kept sweeping around the room, refilling cups and swiftly moving pieces on each board.
Eventually, the game ended with a win for Klbkch and a loss for Olesm.
“Congratulations, Klbkch. And to you, Erin.”
“Indeed. I am quite impressed by your ability.”
Erin smiled at both players and tried not to laugh.
“Yeah, it was a good game. Too bad I wasn’t playing either of you.”
“What?”
She pointed down to the chess board in front of Olesm. His King was cornered by a queen and a bishop.
“Notice anything similar about Klbkch’s board, Olesm?”
He looked over. On Klbkch’s side, he’d cornered Erin’s king with a bishop and a queen. In the exact same spots as the pieces on Olesm’s board.
“What is this?”
“I played you two against each other. It’s the oldest trick in the book—I once heard of a guy who tried it against two Grandmasters and failed. I always wanted to do it just once.”
Erin smiled as Klbkch and Olesm exclaimed and then raised her hands as they immediately demanded another match. She was setting up the boards for a real dual game when something happened.
One of the Workers stood up.
Instantly, Klbkch stopped setting up his pieces and let one of his hands fall down to his side. Erin saw he was holding his sword hilt as he stood up.
“What are you doing, Worker?”
Klbkch’s voice was cold and hostile. The Worker froze in pure terror, or so it seemed—then meekly bowed to him. And then? He opened his mandibles andspoke.
“This one would watch, Prognugator.”
His statement confounded Erin, who hadn’t thought the Workers had any desires, and Klbkch himself. The [Guardsman] replied slowly.
“…Watch?”
Klbkch glanced down at the board and then back to the Worker. He seemed uncertain.
“It is impolite to intrude or impede the innkeeper’s path.”
Erin hastily interposed herself between Klbkch and the meek Worker who was already retreating back to his seat. She beckoned him over.
“It doesn’t bother me, Klbkch. Let him watch. An audience for a chess game is great.”
Klbkch hesitated.
“I would not wish to impose on your hospitality or patience—”
“Impose away, by all means!”
Erin rode over his protests and pulled up another chair. She steered the Worker over to the chair without touching him and made him sit down. Then she noticed the other Workers and Goblins were staring at the chess boards too.
“Come on over if you want to watch, all of you.”
Instantly, there was a crowd surrounding both chess boards. Olesm and Klbkch blinked at the spectators, but Erin smiled happily.
“Okay, now let’s do this so it’ll be fun for me and you. I’ll play you both, but we only get five—okay, ten seconds for each move.”
“Is this another way of playing chess?”
“It’s how some games are played, yeah. This style is called Lightning Chess, but in tournaments, you can have anywhere from an hour’s time in total to think of all your moves to only three minutes. If we had a clock we could—never mind, I’ll explain it as we play, okay?”
Klbkch and Olesm nodded. Erin took a chair and placed it between both tables so she could reach both chess boards.
“I’ll have to sit down for this. I’m no Grandmaster.”
——
The first two rounds of games, Erin won handily. But in the third game, Olesm scored a draw. Klbkch nodded as he saw the blue Drake raise his claws and open his mouth with joy.
“Congratulations, Olesm.”
Erin covered a yawn and massaged at her back. She gave the elated Drake a weary smile.
“Yeah, that was a great game!”
“Why, thank you.”
Olesm’s scales turned a light shade of red as he shook Klbkch’s hand. His tail thrashed around wildly on the floor, but Klbkch and Erin pretended not to notice.
“I must say, it’s quite amazing—I feel relieved to have finally tied a match against you, Erin. I was beginning to think it was impossible.”
She blushed and waved a hand at him. It felt extremely embarrassing to be treated like some kind of chess genius, especially since she knew she wasn’t. Erin was about to suggest a rematch with different rules when she looked over at the watching Worker Antinium.
“Do you want to play?”
The Antinium she was addressing sat up in his seat and bowed to her. Quickly, Klbkch sat up, but the Worker spoke before he did.
“This Worker would not presume to…play.”
Erin frowned. Did that mean he wanted to play but he was afraid to?
“Why not give it a shot? I’ll teach you how to play, and we can always make more chess boards. All we need is a few pieces of paper and a pen.”
She went into the kitchen and pulled out a few pieces of paper and a quill and ink. It had made her feel like a wizard when she’d first bought the quill, and then she’d wished for a computer and a printer five seconds after she’d had to actually dip the quill every few words when she wrote.
As her guests watched, Erin drew a rough chess board on a piece of parchment and then tore up other pieces. She carefully drew symbols on them to show which were pawns and which were other pieces and put the makeshift chess board on the table. She put two of the Antinium Workers in chairs facing each other across the board.
It was the most low-key chess board Erin had ever seen, but the Antinium stared at the scraps of paper with total concentration.
“Okay, so how much did you guys see when I played chess with Klbkch and Olesm? Do you know how to set up the board?”
Instantly, both Antinium moved. Erin recoiled for a second, but they merely rearranged the pieces on the chess board with mechanical precision. In seconds, each side was set up. Erin blinked at them.
“Good. Good. And, uh, show me how this piece moves?”
Obediently, the Antinium Worker moved the piece forwards.
“And can you move it from left to right?”
“This one does not believe so.”
Klbkch hovered over the board. As always, he had few features Erin could read, but he appeared distressed for some reason.
“Address her by her title.”
The Antinium instantly bowed his head at Erin.
“Apologies, Innkeeper Solstice. This one does not believe the pawn piece moves left and right.”
Erin gave Klbkch a half annoyed glance, but turned back to the Worker.
“Right, that’s true! Very good. And show me how it takes a piece?”
He showed her.
“Good. But did you know there’s one more move the pawn can do?”
Instantly, the other Antinium and the Goblins watching the game were filled with attention. They stared as Erin showed them how to take a pieceen passant and explained the unique rules around that action. The Antinium she was coaching immediately bowed its head to her.
“This one was unaware of this fact. This one apologizes to Innkeeper Solstice for its failure.”
“What? Don’t apologize. Not many players know about that move. How could you? Now, let’s have you play a game with your friend.”
Erin stepped back as the two Antinium Workers stared at each other in silence. For a moment, she was afraid they’d do nothing, but then the first Worker moved his pawn up to E5. After a moment, the other Workers replied with the Sicilian Defense, and then the game was on.
Piece after piece moved with minimal pausing in between. At first, Erin was afraid they were recreating her games with Klbkch and Olesm, but the two players were playing their own game. It took her a while to realize they were still playing by Lightning rules. Once she’d explained they could take their time, the game slowed.
Erin stared at the two Workers playing each other in complete silence and then looked around at her audience.
“Anyone else want to play?”
——
Silence. It was the sound of funerals and churches, except that it wasn’t. Rather, it was the sound you thought should be in such places, but really was more like an ideal goal than the truth.
It was the sound of chess tournaments, though. Erin circulated the inn, filling plates with dead flies and pouring water (she’d run out of blue juice), and felt like she was home as she listened to theclick of chess pieces moving, or, more often, the shuffling of dry paper.
“Oh. How’s the game going? Anyone want more flies? How about pasta? A cup of jui—water?”
Erin passed by each board and watched as Antinium and even Goblins played each other. There were eight boards set up, and the players rotated with each other once someone lost.
Her natural instincts as a chess player warred with her desire to give the new players advice. She compromised by letting Olesm and Klbkch offer commentary and then dissected games after they’d been played out by recreating them and pointing out good or bad moves.
The Antinium Workers watched Erin’s every move and listened to her words with frightening attention. She’d heard the word ‘rapt’ used to describe people, but never had she met a group so completely focused as the Workers. It was frankly unnerving, but her love of explaining chess moves and strategies more than made up for the awkwardness.
That was one thing. But what really amazed Erin and even Olesm and Klbkch were the Goblins. They were playing chess.
Okay, not well and not quickly, but the Goblins were sitting down and giving each other spirited, if not particularly well thought out games. The exception was the smallest Goblin, Rags, who had actually beaten two of the Antinium Workers back-to-back.
Erin stopped in front of one of the real chess boards as Rags slid into the seat opposite. It was technically Klbkch’s turn to play, but the Goblin stared at her. It was an obvious challenge.
“I’ll play you, if you want. You’re white, so go ahead.”
Rags eyed Erin defiantly and moved her knight first. Erin hid a smile.
“Oh, the Baltic Opening, huh? Well…”
She moved a pawn two squares up directly in front of the knight. It was her favorite way to deal with that opening move. Rags frowned and then moved another piece. And then another. For a while, the Goblin looked like a strange, green kid playing chess. That was until she opened her mouth and Erin saw the sharp teeth. But Rags still looked a lot less threatening than before.
Erin crushed her while she served the last of her pasta to the Goblins and had a bite to eat herself.
——
The Goblin challenged her three more times while Erin played Olesm and then two of the Workers. Each time, Rags handily lost, but Erin was impressed by the way the small Goblin was willing to try new strategies. She said so.
“You guys could learn a lot from her. Most of these moves are actually established patterns. Okay, moving the rook right away wasn’t a good choice, but you’re better than most beginners.”
She smiled at Rags. The Goblin fidgeted in her chair and looked away.
Klbkch nodded, and Olesm expressed an interest in playing the Goblin. Erin looked over at the Workers. They were eying her surreptitiously. She had the impression they wanted to play her too.
She clapped her hands together and smiled.
“Now then. Anyone else want to play another game?”
——
“And that’s checkmate.”
Olesm looked up from his king and shook his head despairingly.
“Another fine game, Erin. I wasn’t aware of your trap until you moved your bishop up.”
Erin yawned and grinned sleepily at him. Around her, the Goblins sat or lay on the tables, sleepily watching the game.
“You keep giving away too many pawns. They’re more valuable than you think.”
Olesm bowed his head and nearly toppled over. He jerked upright and nodded at her.
“I shall keep it in mind, Erin.”
She nodded and yawned again.
“Anyone want to play another game? Klbkch?”
The ant man shook his head. He glanced towards the door and at the Workers still playing chess. They were still intensely staring at the paper chess boards without any sign of fatigue.
“It is late. I am afraid we must take our leave, Miss—Erin. If I may address you in that way.”
Erin blinked at Klbkch and then looked out the window.
“Oh, of course you can call me that, Klbkch. And wow, itis late!”
She stood up. Immediately, the Workers stopped playing chess and stood too. They bowed to her.
“Allow me to thank you and pay you in their place, Erin.”
Klbkch handed her a bag of silver and gold coins. Erin blinked down at it.
“Oh. That’s a lot.”
“It is only fair payment for what we have consumed. And, might I trouble you to ask for a container of Acid Flies? I wish to bring some back to Liscor.”
“What? Oh, sure. I’ve actually got a huge glass jar. Do you want it?”
“Please.”
Erin ended up giving Klbkch a huge jar full of Acid Flies for a gold coin. She felt guilty about it, but the Antinium insisted it was a fair price. He left with Olesm and the Workers in tow, and Erin saw the Goblins off as they slowly streamed out of her inn.
“Come again! I’ll feed you lot another meal if you come by. You don’t need to pay—you paid me enough this time. Okay?”
The Goblins grunted or waved their hands awkwardly at her. They filed out of the inn, patting their stomachs happily.
The paper chess board and pieces were in a big pile. The Goblins seemed less keen on them—perhaps because they thought this inn was their chess spot to play in safety. Klbkch had told Erin giving the Workers the game was not a good idea. So she silently waited until he was talking with Olesm by the door and handed a Worker the entire stack. The Worker promptly hid the papers behind its back and shuffled towards the door with the others.
The last Goblin, Rags, paused as she walked by Erin. The small Goblin held her hands tightly at her side.
“Hey.”
Erin tapped Rags on the head. She held out her hand. Silently, the small Goblin handed her the pawn back as the other Goblins glared at her.
“No stealing. Besides, a chess board isn’t complete without all the pieces.”
Rag’s eyes lit up. Erin narrowed hers.
“That doesn’t mean you can steal them either. If you want to play a game, come back any time. Okay?”
For a while, the little Goblin hesitated and then nodded. Erin smiled.
“Have a good night.”
She closed the door. Then she bolted it and made sure all the windows were fastened tight. She didn’t mind the small Goblin, but she was damned if she was going to let it walk off with her chess set.
——
“Um, Senior Guardsman Klbkch? May I have a word?”
Klbkch paused as he walked swiftly back to Liscor. He was setting a fast pace, and Olesm was struggling to keep up.
“My apologies, Olesm Swifttail. I had forgotten you were with us.”
“No, it’s nothing.”
Olesm gasped and wheezed as Klbkch slowed. The Workers behind him silently adjusted their pace to give the two room.
“I just wanted to talk to you—if I may.”
“Certainly. May I ask if you are addressing your comment to the liaison of the Antinium or Senior Guardsmen Klbkch?”
“Both, I believe. Um, how shall I put this?”
Olesm paused as the two strode through the night. Klbkch waited patiently until the Drake began.
“As the [Tactician] who liaisons with the Council and other guilds and the guard, I am privy to some confidential information. I am, uh, aware of the situation with the Workers within the Antinium. R-regarding Aberrations and how they appear.”
“Indeed?”
Klbkch’s voice was flat. He was normally quite friendly, but this statement instantly put him on guard and small wonder. The Watch and the Council were there to check the Hive as a threat.
Olesm glanced nervously behind him at the Workers. They silently stared back at him.
“Will—will this be a problem, do you think?”
Klbkch hesitated. He looked back, and the Workers instantly looked down at the ground.
“We shall see. They will be observed as usual, and I will personally supervise them.”
“Ah, good, good. I wouldn’t ask, but I know that these kinds of things have, uh, dire consequences. This isn’t to say that I’m against taking a few Workers out under supervision, but the Watch Captain and Council—”
Klbkch turned and faced Olesm. The [Tactician] stopped nervously, but Klbkch merely bowed respectfully.
“I understand your concerns. If it helps, I will address this topic in my monthly report to inform you of any significant changes. I shall note our conversation and these instances most rigorously in my report to Captain Zevara.”
Olesm sighed in relief.
“Thank you. Yes, that’s perfect! Just so we have a written record.”
They went on, and Klbkch resumed their conversation in a more casual manner, to Olesm’s relief.
“I trust you have enjoyed yourself tonight?”
“Oh, yes. Very. Erin—that is, Miss Erin Solstice is quite a remarkable Human, isn’t she?”
“Indeed.”
“Quite remarkable.”
“Her mastery of the game of chess may be unmatched within the continent.”
“Absolutely.”
“Indeed.”
A moment of painful silence. Then Klbkch’s head rotated slowly, and he said something completely unexpected.
“…Would you like to play a game after this, by any chance?”
Klbkch glanced at the Drake, and Olesm hesitated. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was a known figure in Liscor who had won his approval over a long time, but Olesm knew his past, and he knew more about the dangers of the Antinium than most as Liscor’s [Tactician]. Yet right at this moment—he thought he had never known Klbkch more.
The two losers of endless bouts with Erin looked at each other, and Olesm managed a smile and a nod.
“It would be my pleasure.”
——
The Workers were left at the gates of Liscor to find their way to the Hive, which they did, unnoticed by all but a few citizens who avoided them. The Goblins who had gone with the littlest Goblin to the inn crept back to their cave and did not tell the others why they weren’t that hungry and where they’d been.
But the one thing Olesm and Klbkch didn’t realize was this. While they sat and had a genteel game of chess at Olesm’s office, trying out new moves and what Erin had taught them, it failed to occur to them that they were not the only people who had learned something from Erin.
The Workers had a bundle of paper slips. While they were supposed to be asleep, one slowly, slowly let a chess board fall to the floor of the Hive. Then, as many Workers watched, another slowly placed down the chess ‘pieces’, the squares of paper, just like they’d been shown.
After all—this made sense to them. It was just numbers and patterns, and the [Innkeeper] had played with them.
The Goblins did not have any paper chess boards, because it would invariably be used as toilet paper or kindling for a fire. But the littlest Goblin was busy arranging some grass and sticks into an odd formation, and the rest of her tribe ignored her. She was always weird, and they didn’t see why she was thinking and placing them in odd positions on the ground.
Klbkch and Olesm retired after a few games, and Olesm levelled up that night, much to his delight. But that was nothing to the voice which spoke to the many confused and frightened Antinium who panicked because they were going to get in trouble. It said the exact same thing to the littlest Goblin and a few others, who sat up in confusion and awe.
The voice said:
[Tactician Class Obtained!]
[Tactician Level 2!]
[Skill – Risk Calculation obtained!]
[Skill – Group: Erratic Maneuvering obtained!]
Or some variation of that in level and Skills. Yet the [Innkeeper] flopped into her makeshift bed in the kitchen and closed her eyes and slept.
Erin heard nothing at all.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T02:47:45)
Typo go here
Robb (2023-03-06T01:20:06)
‘innkeeper’, ‘The Drake Tactician’
Should be in brakes.
‘and pouring water (she’d run out of blue juice)’
What happened to ‘regular apple juice and a refreshing minty drink’ from previous chapter?
‘Senior Guardsmen Klbkch?’ — Guardsman.
Robb (2023-03-06T01:24:51)
‘other guilds and the guard’
And the Watch
Grault (2023-03-15T18:47:40)
Erin heard nothing at all.
By all rights she should definitely have the [Tactician] class by now.
Kris (2023-03-19T20:12:53)
Unless levelling requires some sort of personal improvement or advancement. It seemed like she was taking it easy and enjoying herself.
Ryuuku (2023-03-21T22:53:48)
About the term “you lot”. Erin says this in the chapter; I always thought it was chiefly a Commonwealth / Britishism. Erin is from the US, right? Maybe consider “you guys” or even “y’all.”
Khaim (2023-04-18T04:13:44)
It said the exact same thing
[…]
Or some variation of that in level and Skills
Which is it? If they each got different levels (which makes sense) then it’s not “the exact same thing”.
Also it’s very odd to give a level up but not say who it’s for. I’d rewrite this section to first talk about a specific person getting these skills, and then say how the others were getting similar levels.
greycat (2023-07-19T01:22:48)
Erin’s from Michigan, far north of the parts of the country where “y’all” is common.  She definitely doesn’t use any southern US terms.  Depending on how close to Canada she lived, she might have picked up some Canadian speech patterns there.  She might even have picked up some expressions from international chess players.
greycat (2023-07-19T01:30:59)
This is one of my favorite early chapters.  Erin just casually gathers up an inn full of Goblins and Antinium as if it were the most normal thing in the world.  Nobody gets stabbed, and everyone goes home well-fed and happy.  She even gives a Goblin a name, and teaches two new species how to play chess.  How she doesn’t level up in [Innkeeper] from all of this is beyond me.
Hguest (2023-08-10T04:08:00)
I think that she see chest as a game / an entertainment not a tactical relates hopy or something orderly make sense
Takusaka (2023-10-03T19:17:34)
True!!
marine (2023-10-21T18:13:46)
Surprised she didn’t level from that, considering that this is the first time she’s had more than 3 or so guests in her inn and served and entertained them all night
Blazer (2023-11-21T16:48:39)
But the one thing Olesm and Klbkch didn’t realize was this. While they sat and had a genteel game of chess at Olesm’s office, trying out new moves and what Erin had taught them, it failed to occur to them that they were not the only people who had learned something from Erin.
‘genteel’ should be gentle
yagoldt (2024-01-11T02:47:37)
That looks like trouble
Nicnom (2024-03-17T06:31:21)
Genteel:
polite, refined, or respectable, often in an affected orostentatious way.
(Applies on all counts as they affect a decorum to play the game according to its rules.)
Nicnom (2024-03-17T06:38:40)
Same, on all counts. Thos had me cracking up and horrified, frankly. This is my first read through so I’m not sure how horrified I should be . . . but Erin, handing that stack of papers against Klb’s advice; Olsem, sitting there focused on chess and who knows, with a risk assessment skill on the fritz because “oops, this situation is not supposed to happen.” Or turning on and off as Erin enters and returns from the kitchen. Though, he said he played Erin w/o skills in their first match—maybe it’d be screaming at him otherwise, and he got too distracted by Chess to listen!
And the goblin! I half wish Erin had counter out the money/item ratio with her, taking money as she gave them food, to demonstrate—and pay her back for figuring out the poison fruit, because Erin of anyone knows that the smallest goblin can think.
Also, didn’t that now dead cheiftan just want a Shaman? Wonder how much worse it is to get a goblin tactician before any type of evolution, even. But I have zero clue! No clue how all this works, but gosh is it hilarious and probably more important than I think.
And as awesome as Erin was, maybe whatever system is up just doesn’t expect [Innkeepers] to be [Peacekeepers]. Plus she never did ask anyone much of what they wanted!
Klb def. is more aware than Erin in all this though, I don’t blame her for any effects from this, whatever they may be. And this is the one time he maybe didn’t overpay her, because it sounds like Abberations usually attack? (Or maybe they just quietly get a whole hive to their side and uncontrollable, and then there’s like 50 goblin raiding parties even if they only snag a portion of the hive, really.)
Blaz (2024-03-20T08:08:27)
en passant mentioned!!! As a chess nerd this was my favourite chapter
Vivid (2024-09-03T10:44:45)
Great chapter.  I’m up to Roots Part 5 and still haven’t learned how Niers managed to invent the exact same Earth game of chess, Also, on reading it, it occurred to me that the antinium would/could not fit in a straight back chair with their round hard shell backs. Ah, the mysteries of the Wandering Inn. So many details to take in.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.29
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-29/

They were called Workers.
It was more than a name. It was their purpose, their role in life. In the Hive. Worker.
That job included many things. They were hammers to build new tunnels and structures for the Drakes and Gnolls in the city. A butcher to separate meat from bone, or a sweeper to remove dust from the street.
Any task, no matter how menial, was their job. Not for pay or for gratitude from Liscor’s people. For the Hive. For the Queen.
That was their purpose. That was…everything. Aside from Aberrations, who were insane, Workers fought monsters if they had to, worked, and died.
But when Klbkch brought back the twelve Workers, they were not the same as the ones who had left. They marched into the Hive, and he left them without a word. Klbkch was different.
Yet the Workers who went to sit in the mess hall were changed. The Workers ate in silence—hundreds. But every single one stared at the new Workers, because instead of eating the brown, brackish paste that had little bones in it that crunched—these Workers sat together.
Together, at the long tables made of dirt. Every Worker sat shoulder-to-shoulder, packed in, their identical shells and bodies—save for where one had scars, a missing arm, a chunk taken out of their carapace—in a row as they ate.
Yet those twelve Workers who had gone above were sittingtogether somehow. Leaning over a table, practically ignoring their food. They were…moving something around.
A possession? Workershad no possessions. They had tools they sometimes carried because it was more expedient not to put them down, but they had nothing.
Yet these Workers sat there, and the other Workers, in the dead silence of the barracks filled only with the scraping andclacking of mandibles as they ate, nevertheless heard something.
It was the twelve, pouring over a little piece of paper and pieces of smaller paper. Thinking, perfectly replicating a game they had seen. Playing a game.
Chess.
They were thinking so loud that the other Workers could practically hear them. Workers didn’t think. They just—worked. Butthese Workers were concentrating.
How do I move this piece? Rook goes straight. Bishop goes diagonal. Play, fun. Play.
Fun.
Fun? The other Workers who were eating their food had a fifteen minute interval to consume their required nutrition. Then they would go to the barracks and sit in a dirt cubbyhole and sleep. But while the Workers lined up to put the cheap, wooden bowls in a receptacle for them to be filled up again, they slowed.
A line formed around the table where the twelve Workers, oblivious to all, played. Slowly, taking each step as if weighed down by boulders, Workers coincidentally justhappened to peek at the board and the concentrating Workers, who had paired off, six by six, to play.
Only when one of the Workers looked up and started did they notice nearly a hundred Workers staring at them. All the Workers instantly rushed over to put their bowls away.
Time to sleep!
The twelve Workers got up instantly and hurriedly pushed their food bowls into the receptacle. Most weren’t even touched; they’d eaten food in the inn.
Flies! The other Workers who marched with them listened to these loud…thoughts. Flies? They imagined the crunch, and the twelve Workers had played a game of chess. With an [Innkeeper] who gave them ‘blue fruit juice.’
What did all this mean? The Workers filed into the barracks and began to sit for their nine hours of rest. That was all the rest they got before they spent an entire day working…but the twelve Workers hesitated as they sat together.
Slowly, one of them shuffled a bit of paper in the dead silence of the other Workers settling into their dirt cubbyholes. They were packed next to each other, thin walls of dirt separating them into alcoves that were barely more than rounded divorts where a Worker could ‘sit’ and sleep. Their rounded back shells prevented them from lying down like other species.
Shuffle, shuffle.The Worker was shuffling the papers around. Then it slowly put the chessboard down and lined up the pieces. 
Black and white. Erin had colored in the black pieces, and the Worker arranged them neatly. The game had rules. All the other Workers, who weredefinitely asleep because what else would they be doing, didn’t at all listen to the faint sound in the huge barracks.
Or listen to the rules, which made such sense. Workers liked things like rules, and this was agame made of rules. Each pawn moved forwards but attacked left or right. Or it could take another pawn if it moved diagonally behind them which was called en passant.
There were many rules like that. You protected the king, and you played like…
The Worker pushed a pawn forwards on the white side, then after careful thought, moved another pawn forwards to oppose it. It stared at the board and moved a white pawn forwards in the center four squares, flanking the first.
Now, at this juncture, the black side could take the white pawn diagonal from it. But whatif you put another black pawn so that you had four pawns, two black, two white, facing each other?
Was this good playing? Why didn’t youtake the white pawn instead of making an opening? Not that the other Workers were paying attention. Or that all of them were united in thought.
After all, if you were really thinking about it, when you moved that pawn up, why didn’t you use the bishop? Could you win a game on pawns alone with their low movement range? Hey, couldn’t you move a knight diagonally outwards and protect your pieces with pawns and never risk your king?
Aha, but then there were ways to checkmate someonewithout ever touching the pawns. The [Innkeeper] had shown the twelve Workers all kinds of ways to play, and this game had so many pieces and moves that the combinations of outcomes were virtually endless. Especially with an unpredictable opponent on the other side.
…Not that this was fascinating. In fact, wasn’t this—Aberration?
All the Workers froze at this. Aberrations were not to be suffered alive. But the twelve Workers weren’t killing them or screaming. The Queen had said nothing—and Klbkch had not killed them. He killed Aberrations.
So was this Aberration or not? And why was that Worker just lining up pawn pieces in the middle of the board? Move the queen! Move the—
——
It was a long night in which no Worker moved, save for the one who shuffled bits of paper around. The next day, Workers were sluggish owing to something in the food, no doubt.
But at breakfast, while the twelve sat and put out the chessboards, something odd happened. A Worker sat across from one of the chess boards being set up and moved a white piece.
This was not one of the twelve. All the Workersfroze—until the one who had been playing last night moved a black pawn up, facing the white pawn. 
A second white pawn joined the first, in the center of the board. Every Worker in the room stared as the second black pawn joined it. The Worker, who had a butcher’s knife because that was his job in the city, stared at the board.
He took the first black pawn with his own. And then? The two began to play.
There weren’t enough chess boards for the twelve workers; they only had five boards and piece sets from the [Innkeeper]. So sticks and stones were carefully found and placed, and then there were twenty-four Workers. You could, after all, just remember which piece was which.
Twelve Workers played the twelve who had journeyed to the inn. All twelve newcomers lost the first game completely.
They stood up and began to walk off, feeling a vague sense of frustration—but accomplishment. Death might come tomorrow, but they had played agame of chess.
And lost. The Workers were walking to put their dishes away when one of the original twelve Workers beckoned them back. The twelve new Workers saw, to their befuddlement, the original twelve slowly trading seats, rotating one over. Then they sat back down, reset the board, and waited.
The new twelve came back to the table, slowly, and sat down. They played again. Lost again. Then the Workers shuffled places and began to play.
In silence, the other Workers in the mess hall stared at the games. Twenty-four Workers played together. On the fifth game, the Worker with the butcher’s knife glanced up as one of the watching Antinium carefully moved forwards. He stood up to let the new Worker sit—but the trembling newcomer grabbed his butcher’s knife instead.
The trembling Worker stared at the knife as all the other Antinium in the mess hall froze. It raised the knife, stabbed itself in the arm, and green blood ran. Then it opened its mandibles.
“noOOOooo. NOOOooooooO—”
It screamed one word and then began to shriek. The Worker with the butcher’s job backed away.
The individual-who-was-no-longer-a-Worker raised the knife and began to stab others. He stabbed and stabbed as Workers fled and the chess boards were abandoned, and then turned. Heshrieked, and the other Workers fled, trying to shield the remaining twenty-three Workers who’d played chess.
Aberration. Aberration! The call went through the Hive, and even the Queen heard it. She called for Klbkch.
Before the Prognugator arrived, six more Workers were killed and their parts used to decorate the tables. He walked into the mess hall and a screaming Worker covered in green blood ran at him.
“wE! WE! a gAMe!”
It screamed at him, waving the knife. Lunging at him. Klbkch the Prognugator reached down to the twin swords hanging at his belt. He drew them and swung one blade once. Then he bent, carefully thrust the second blade down, and pulled it sideways.
He wiped the silver blades clean and stood. Klbkch stared blankly at the odd, bloody bits of paper on the table and looked around at the Workers huddled at the far end of the room.
“Clean up the bodies. Get back to work.”
Then he turned and walked away. The Workers stood there, looking at the dead Aberration. Their fellow Workers, dead.
All the same. All the same as it ever was. They picked up the bodies for processing, and a Worker picked up the knife to replace the dead butcher. But as they cleaned up and got back to work, the chess boards stayed. Another Worker joined the twenty-three.
By lunch, they had become forty-eight. By dinner? 192.
——
Erin Solstice had taught the Workers how to play games of speed chess. Lightning rules, she called it, where you had a limited amount of time per move.
It was ideal for short moments, like between digging in the tunnels or at a mess hall. Workers picked up stones and sticks and played. Nevermind that you had a ‘board’ of four sticks and a bunch of identical stones.
After all, if you remembered which stones were pawns, rooks, and which were white and black, why did you need a board with shapes? There was nothing else to do. They remembered.
That night, the games of chess continued. Not all Workers took part. It was decided that only a quarter should play this new game in case of further Aberrations occurring.
Decided by who? Not Klbkch. Not the Queen. Neither one had paid attention to the boards. They surely knew because they were the Queen and Klbkch…the Workers just decided it.
The Chosen Workers were the original twelve. But now there were 1532—four had died this day due to a monster attack—in the Hive. Not all were in the same mess hall, but they counted.
Counted who won and lost. Of course, only a few won all the time, and the Chosen Workers were the best players by far. Initially.
However, it seemed clear that the [Innkeeper] had been better than all of them. And this game…this game was fascinating. But perhaps there were strategies, means that the Workers could not fathom?
That night, the Workers sitting in the barracks across the Hive played games. They played and played—and one would get up and slowly, carefully, move to another barracks. Then either return or go to a new barracks. The Workers counted and counted and played.
Therefore, the next day, when the Designated Worker stood, he was tired. He was not one of the Chosen Workers, the twelve, but he was definitively, by numbers, the best for the job.
He was afraid when he went to Klbkch’s office. The Prognugator was almost never disturbed; he was getting ready for his work as a Senior Guardsman. Yet the Designated Worker had to go.
He was the best player—his win/loss ratio was 54.6%, and thus he had been chosen to make the request. There was simply no other alternative.
Klbkch was not on duty at this time of day. He had retreated to his personal quarters within the labyrinthine tunnels, a hollowed-out room of stone and dirt near to the surface. He looked up at the knock on his door. When he saw it was a Worker, he immediately drew his sword.
“State your business immediately or be cut down. Why has the Queen not alerted me?”
The Worker froze. One of those two perfect blades was poised to stab, but he bowed his head towards Klbkch.
“This one would request time off, Prognugator.”
Klbkch hesitated. He did not lower his sword. That was not the voice of the screaming Aberration of yesterday.
“…Why?”
His arm tensed, but the Worker’s reply stopped Klbkch again.
“This one wishes to visit the Innkeeper Solstice.”
Now, Klbkch stood up. Hesitated, then strode towards the Designated Worker and held his blade low, towards the other Antinium’s abdomen. Yet he stopped himself from running the other Worker through. Something was in his voice. A kind of…surprise, wariness beyond belief.
And perhaps something like anticipation. Hope.
“For what purpose do you wish to visit Erin Solstice?”
“This one would play a game of chess.”
“Chess?”
Neither Antinium blinked. They were incapable of doing so, but Klbkch’s antennaetwitched.
“Explain yourself.”
The Designated Worker spoke as precisely as it could.
“This one would learn more of chess for the sake of imparting knowledge onto other Workers. The Workers perceive a limitation in growth after a collective 15,360 games played.”
Klbkch paused as he digested this information. He looked the Worker up and down, and the blade, slowly, slowly withdrew from the Worker’s abdomen.
“I see. Your request will be considered. Return to your duties. Now.”
The Designated Worker bowed his head and left. Klbkch sheathed his sword, stared at the door, and then banged his head with one of his hands. Then he strode off to make an urgent report to his Queen.
Within the hour, he had left the city with the Designated Worker in tow.
——
After two days of experimentation, Erin had to face the facts.
“…I still can’t figure out how to make ice cream.”
All she could make was weird, sugary butter. She stared down at the pan of churned cream and ice cubes and wondered whether it was still edible.
She’d bought the ice and everything from Krshia, and she kept rushing back to her inn in hopes of making it work—but something was wrong, and the resultant mess was nothing like ice cream. Maybe she had missed an ingredient? Her Skill wasn’t telling her what she was doing wrong. Erin stuck a finger in the bowl and tasted it.
“Hm. Sugary.”
Erin licked her finger and decided it would go well with cereal. If she had any cereal. Well, there was that porridge-stuff, but she didn’t like how much chewing she had to do.
“Maybe I’ll feed it to Pisces.”
Glumly, Erin poured her fifth failed experiment into a glass jar. Glass jars were the way to go. Since she didn’t have tupperware and most airtight containers were jars with lids on them, glass jars with corked or glass lids were her best way of keeping things fresh.
“Too bad I don’t have any preservation runes.”
Erin grumbled to herself as she heaved the jar of milk onto a counter. She’d asked Pisces how much it would cost to get fancy runes done. He’d put the price at anywhere from twenty to sixty gold coins and added that she’d need to replace her cabinets if she wanted to make sure the runes stayed intact.
“Too rich for my blood. But refrigerators cost a lot too, right? But you only buy one, and that’s that. So Icould save up if I ever got any customers. Big crowd one day, radio silence the next. And today as well. That’s life, isn’t it?”
Erin’s head snapped up as she heard the door opening.
“Speak of the devil.”
She raised her voice.
“Have a seat! I’ll be with you in a moment!”
Erin looked around and cursed. She didn’t have any food ready. It was only lunchtime—she hadn’t expected anyone to actually come by except Pisces, and he could wait forever. But he would have already made a snide remark by now.
No helping it. She hurried out of the kitchen and spotted a short creature standing in the inn. It had familiar green skin, pointy ears, and red eyes. Erin started to smile and then stopped.
“Wait a second. Who the hell are you?”
——
The four Goblins watched from the cover of a patch of long grass as the door shut. They watched and saw the other Goblins surrounding the inn. One had already entered, and the other Goblins were waiting to enter behind him.
The hiding Goblins weren’t waiting to enter. Rather, they were watching with dull dread in their stomachs. They would have liked to do something. Shouted, perhaps. But that wasn’t in their natures, and they were afraid.
They had been nine, but now they were four. And they feared making sound and alerting the other Goblins around the inn to their presence. They were forbidden to be here. They had been nine, and now they were four. And they feared becoming zero.
The littlest Goblin lay there, barely able to move. The other three were holding her down. They watched helplessly. The one Erin called Rags gripped a dagger in her hands, but she felt the bruises and cracked bones from the beating she’d taken just last night. She could only watch. They were four. The tribe had made a decision, and they hadn’t listened. The Chieftain was dead. The four Goblins were all bloody and filthy, and there were four of them.
The Goblins surrounding the inn were forty.
——
“Uh, hi there.”
Erin stared at the large Goblin as it glanced around her inn. She was sure she’d never seen this particular Goblin before in her life. He was larger than the rest, taller, brawnier. Not like the big one, but a head taller than any of the other small ones. Some kind of in-between?
And he was carrying a short sword at his waist, not a dagger or a club.
The Goblin looked up at Erin. He was still shorter than her by a good head, but he didn’t seem intimidated by her height. On the contrary, he seemed like he wanted to be the one doing the intimidating.
“Look, can I help you? Do you want food or something?”
Normally, Erin would have offered him a plate of something at once. But this particular Goblin wasn’t like Rags or her timid friends. There was an aggression about him she recognized. It reminded her of guys from her world. Something about the look, the way he stood there—too tense. Staring at her. It made her back crawl, and she realized her knife was in the kitchen.
The Goblin glanced at Erin and said something. He sauntered up to her. She stared down at him.
“Excuse me? What do you—”
He poked her. In the stomach. Actually, it was closer to her pelvis since he was shorter anduncomfortably close to another area.
“Stop that.”
He grinned and reached out to poke her again. Erin slapped his hand down.
“Stop that. Tell me what you want or get out.”
The big Goblin’s eyes narrowed. His hand went to his short sword. Erin made a fist and showed it to him.
“Try that and I’ll kick your face in. Got it?”
He glared up at her. Then, surprisingly, he grinned. He turned his head and called something in that scratchy language over his shoulder.
Erin looked up as the door opened. A Goblin walked into the room, and then another. And then another. And another and another and…
Suddenly, there were a lot of Goblins in her inn. Alot. And suddenly, purely by coincidence, Erin had just broken out into a cold sweat.
“Well. You have…friends. Do you all want food?”
More Goblins filed into her inn. It was an unending stream of them. They surrounded the bigger Goblin, exactly like a gang of…gangsters. Or, in Erin’s mind, much like a gang of children following the bully.
Erin took one step back as the leader of the Goblin mob grinned at her. He stroked the sword at his waist. Erin thought of the knife in her kitchen but abandoned the idea instantly. Every Goblin in the inn had a weapon, and most were holding them casually in their hands.
She had a bad feeling—no, sheknew she was in trouble.
The big Goblin looked around the inn and snorted. Then he spat.
A glob of greenish spit landed right on one of Erin’s clean tables. Next to a chess board. The Goblin looked at it and then walked over and picked up the pieces.
She could run. In fact, Erin was pretty sure she could outrun them. If she got to the door and slammed it shut, then she’d be able to take off. They’d never catch her with their stubby little legs.
Erin slowly edged around a table, as if she were nervous. The Goblin tribe watched her, but they clearly weren’t expecting her to attack. They knew they outnumbered her. She didn’t need to get that close to the door, but if she were just a few feet away, she could—
Tapping. Erin looked over and saw the big Goblin leader smacking one of her chess pieces hard against the stone chess board. He grinned: a bully with a new breakable toy that didn’t belong to him.
Smack, smack. He was watching Erin out of the corner of his eye as he bashed a carved figurine of a Drake knight on the board.
Erin saw bits of the fragile chess piece breaking off. Her mouth opened.
“Oi. Put that down.”
The Goblin sneered. It deliberately tossed the knight on the ground. The other Goblins watched as their leader deliberatelystomped on the chess piece. It snapped in two.
Erin stared down at the small, stone figurine lying in pieces. She looked up at the grinning Goblin.
——
The four Goblins heard the faint sound of somethingcracking as they waited outside the inn. Then they heard silence.
The next thing they saw was the big Goblinsmashing through a window. They ran for cover as Erin strode out the door with a chair in her hands.
The big Goblin snarled at Erin and struck at her as she approached. She stepped back and then belted him over the head with the chair. She lost her grip on it, but that didn’t even slow her down. As the Goblin swung at her, she delivered a punch to his face and then jumped back. Erin didn’t know how, but when he tried to rush her, she instinctively stepped sideways and knocked him flat with a kick to his back.
It was like magic. Or—a Skill. Bar fighting. That was it. Erin had never reallypunched someone in her life, but when she made a fist and drove it into the big Goblin’s face, it floored him.
He was trying to rip the short sword out of its scabbard. Erin kicked the blade out of his hands as he got it free and then kicked him in the face. As he shouted in pain, she picked up the chair and drove it into his midsection.
“Not so tough now, are you? Huh?”
Erin raised the chair to hit the Goblin again. She prepared to swing it down—
And something poked her in the side. Erin turned around. She saw a knife sticking out of her skin. It was buried halfway in, and the green clawed hand holding it was shaking.
“…Ow.”
A Goblin was behind her. She let go as Erin turned and backed up. Let go—but her crimson eyes were both focused on Erin and very distant. Blood ran down her claw, and Erin felt at the sharp thing in her flesh. She tried to tug at it and felt something moving in her stomach. The female Goblin reached for a second weapon—a rock—and Erin lashed out.
She punched the Goblin into the ground, but then another Goblin was next to her.
Stab.
This time, the blade was long and thin and went in further, into Erin’s thigh. It was a dull sensation. Shefelt her skin tearing as he raked her side with it. Erin shouted and hit him with her chair hard enough that she felt something in him break. But then another Goblin was next to her. He slashed her in the leg.
She didn’t feel it. And that was the scariest thing. As another Goblin stuck a knife in Erin’s back, she felt it go in, but she didn’tfeel the pain. And the Goblins were suddenly surrounding her. They poured out of the inn as Erin tried to keep them away. And they all had knives.
Stab. Stabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstab—
Erin swung her chair and knocked three Goblins senseless. She kicked out and sent another one flying, then punched one so hard he fell over unconscious. She didn’t know how, but she was suddenly a fighting machine. But the Goblins kept coming, and their knives went in, and shedidn’t feel a thing.
Two more Goblins went down to Erin’s punches before she toppled over. It wasn’t that she’d tripped. She just fell down and saw the blood pooling. Erin wanted to reach out and touch it, but her arms wouldn’t move.
The big Goblin was standing over her. When had he gotten to his feet? He had the short sword in his hand, and he was raising it. He snarled around his broken nose. Then his head fell off.
Klbkch beheaded the large Goblin with one sweep of his swords. He stepped forward to shield Erin as his swords scythed out and cut two more Goblins apart. He addressed the other Antinium by his side, the Worker holding the pieces of paper in his hands. The trembling Worker stared down at Erin as pieces of paper fluttered to the ground.
“I must save Erin. Cover me.”
The Worker nodded and dropped its pieces of paper.
Erin looked up and tried to wave at Klbkch as the ant-man knelt swiftly beside her.
“Stay awake, Erin. I have a potion. Stay alive for a few seconds longer.”
“Another p-potion?”
Erin laughed weakly. She wanted to say ‘you shouldn’t have,’ but her mouth stopped working. Klbkch’s hands were a blur as they dove into the pouch at his waist. He uncorked the bottle and splashed half of it over Erin’s legs. The other half he made her drink. He had to hold her mouth open because she couldn’t open it.
She felt the noxious liquid go down, and something happened in her body. But Erin wasn’t paying attention. She felt like a spectator, a ghost who wasn’t really attached to the thing Klbkch was cradling in his arms. She saw the Worker fighting as the Goblins recovered from their shock. She saw him dying.
The Worker had no weapons. He only had bits of paper. But he charged into the mass of Goblins, striking them with his four hands,biting, hitting them. Like how a child fought.
The Goblins fell back at first from the ferocity of the assault. But as soon as the Worker found himself in the midst of them, they closed in.
One second the Worker was grabbing at Goblin, the next, they covered him. Countless Goblins piled onto the Worker, stabbing, hitting any part of his body they could reach. The Worker fell to the ground, but seized one Goblin by the leg. His mandibles opened, and hebit.
The Goblinscreamed and stabbed him in the eye. The other Goblins stabbed and clubbed him and then left the broken, crushed shell of the Worker on the ground. They swarmed away from him except for one Goblin, which still screamed in agony as it tugged at its leg. It came away with a sickly snap as the leg and flesh ripped from the Worker’s jaws to reveal yellow bone.
Erin blew out a bubble of blood and then coughed. Something warm was flowing up from her cold legs. She could feel them again and—pain. But she could feel them.
As the Goblins spread out around the Human and Antinium, Klbkch stood up from Erin’s side. He drew both swords and daggers and faced the forty-odd Goblins. He looked down at her and then the slot on his belt.
Two empty slots for two potions. Klbkch stared around and saw no place to put his back against. He could find a wall—but Erin was lying at his feet. Forty Goblins.
He could have run, but the Senior Guardsman didn’t. He looked across from him at the dead Worker. Curled up, staring blankly at the sky.
A Worker who spoke. A Worker who had desires. A success—
Dead.
Dead. Klbkch felt his mandibles click together. He looked down at Erin. He should have left her. He should have taken the Worker back.
He should run or put his back to a wall or—the Antinium lifted the blades and looked around. His voice was a whisper.
“They call me the Slayer. Come.”
The Goblins didn’t wait. They charged, howling with blood and fury. Klbkch waited for them and attacked with all four arms at once. He drew two knives from his waist with his lower hands.
His swords cut arcs in the air as they lopped off limbs and heads while his lower arms stabbed out with his knives. The first few Goblins who approached him died before they could take a step.
But—so many. Klbkch stepped back as the Goblins kept coming. He spun left and shredded two Goblins with his swords as his lower two arms stabbed a Goblin in the neck with his daggers. One sprinted under his guard and raked his legs with a dagger, but only managed to cut into his exoskeleton. Klbkch beheaded him, but more Goblins jumped on his back. He shook himself like a dog and cut them off of him.
He could have moved, but there was something right behind him. His swords slashed out in perfect arcs—until he twisted. Threw himself into a burning vial a Goblin threw. It splashed over him, and his carapace ignited. Not a drop touched the young woman with hazel eyes. The Antinium began burning as the Goblins backed up. One raised a bow—
Thetwang and thud were one sound. Klbkch adjusted his leg. He glanced down at the arrow sticking out of it. Erin Solstice’s face stared blankly up at him, as if she were dreaming.
His hand flickered. The Goblin holding the bow staggered, and a knife protruded from the Goblin’s chest. She fell, gasping, as Klbkch turned. The Goblins charged him like they had the crab.
——
Erin watched through lidded eyes. The potion was coursing through her, but the drowsiness was making her sleepy. She couldn’t stay awake. It was like her mind was shutting down every few moments.
She kept blinking. Her eyes would close, and then her head would snap back up. Each time she opened her eyes, more Goblins lay in pieces around her. Blood stained the ground and her clothes. And Klbkch. But his blood was green. And there was a lot of it.
Erin opened her eyes and saw Klbkch stagger as a Goblin stabbed him in the back with the short sword. The Antinium turned and beheaded the Goblin, but two more struck him glancing blows from his other side. Even as he turned, more lunged forward. He swept his blades to keep them away, but he couldn’t guard every angle.
Why didn’t he run? He was surrounded. If he had his back to the wall, he could fend them off.
Oh. Right. He was defending her. And that meant he couldn’t watch his back.
Erin’s head lowered. The darkness closed in. Then she opened her eyes and saw Klbkch lying on the ground. No—not lying. Fallen. He was on his knees. He still had his blades, but he couldn’t stand up. Green blood dripped from the wounds on his body. So many.
But he’d taken vengeance for his injuries. Erin looked around and saw dead bodies everywhere. Pieces of Goblins. Heads. Limbs. Blood coated everything, including her.
Nine Goblins spread out around Klbkch in a wary circle. They didn’t dare approach the Antinium, even on his knees. Erin wondered what they were doing. Oh. They were waiting for him to die.
“Miss Solstice.”
It was a rasping whisper. Erin looked at Klbkch. The Antinium didn’t move, but spoke to the ground as he used one sword to keep himself upright.
“You must flee. I will buy you a moment.”
She stared at him.
“No.”
“Can you not move?”
“I can feel my legs. Sort of.”
“Then go. Once you are in sight of the city, you will be safe.”
“No.”
Heclicked his mandibles together.
“I cannot slay the rest. Nine Goblins are too many—I am a failure. Forty Goblins. FortyGoblins—”
He made a fluttering sound. Erin thought it sounded like an insect’s chirping. She realized it was—laughter. Klbkch whispered.
“If they could see me. Run.”
“No.”
Erin said it automatically. Her brain still wasn’t working.
“No. There aren’t nine. There are thirteen.”
Klbkch looked up. He saw the four Goblins as they swarmed up the hill from behind the others. The other Goblins hesitated, afraid to turn away from Klbkch, and in that moment, the small band of Goblins struck them from behind.
The four Goblins worked together. Two grabbed one Goblin and held him down, and Rags stabbed him in the face while the fourth kept the other eight at bay. He was armed with a large stick and covered his friends from the enemy Goblins. They would have rushed him, but Klbkch was on their other side and shifted whenever they moved.
Rags and the other three Goblins moved from the dead Goblin to flank the other Goblins. They feinted as Klbkch guarded Erin, and the other Goblins turned their attention to them. In an instant, Klbkch threw one of his swords and speared a Goblin through the chest.
As the seven remaining enemy Goblins turned their attention to Klbkch, Rags and the three Goblins rushed forwards and repeatedly stabbed another Goblin in the back. They fled backwards even as the other Goblins sliced at them.
Tactics. They fought their kin, and Erin saw the little one, face mashed and bruised, screeching what sounded like orders. Crimson eyes and red blood blurred together.
Were the Goblins crying? She couldn’t tell. Which ones were weeping? All of them?
The seven Goblins backed up. This wasn’t supposed to be happening. They had come to kill a lone Human, however dangerous she might be, not fight deadly insect-monsters and their own kind.
They edged away from the wounded Antinium. It was clear that he couldn’t move, and wounded as they were, they still outnumbered Rags and her friends. Rags and her comrades retreated until they had the inn at their backs. But it was still two-to-one.
The Goblin that had picked up the short sword pointed at Rags and screeched a command. The seven Goblins turned away. And one of them collapsed with a knife in the back of his head.
Erin blinked down at her hand. She’d picked it up and thrown it without thinking. And it had hit its target. The Goblins turned in shock and looked at Erin.
She stood up andhit the closest Goblin with an uppercut that snapped his head backwards. Her legs felt like jelly. But they were whole. She kicked, and another Goblin flew and smashed into a wall.
Two more would have rushed her, but this time, Klbkch threw. He missed with his daggers, but his sword hit one of the Goblins vertically and lodged in his head. He fell down, and Erin hit the other Goblin and knocked him down.
She turned for the other three, but they were already dead. Two Goblins held the last one down as hescreamed while Rags stabbed him repeatedly in the chest. He convulsed and died.
Erin breathed out shakily. She lowered her fists. She didn’t even notice the two Goblins she’d hit getting to their feet and running. Rags and her Goblins raced after them, screaming their high-pitched war cry.
Slowly, Erin looked around. The Goblins were dead. Their blood covered everything. Her breathing was ragged; she felt like there wasn’t enough air in the world. The world grew dark, and she staggered. She would have sat down and passed out, but then something moved.
Klbkch. He collapsed in a pool of green ichor that mixed with the red around him. Suddenly, Erin’s body was full of electricity and panic. She ran over to him. He was trying to get up, but his exoskeleton was full of holes. He wasleaking.
“Oh god. Oh god no.”
Klbkchclicked at her. He spoke, still in that too-calm tone of his. But his head was jerking, trying to look at her, and it kept falling back. Spasming, as if he were—falling asleep.
“Erin Solstice. You are safe? Good. My Queen will send—her Soldiers will come. You will be safe.”
He tried to reach for her. Erin grabbed his hand and then released it. She helplessly held her hands over the oozing gaps in his body, but his blood ran over her fingers. Klbkch touched at her hair and let his hand fall away.
“Fascinating. So this—First Queen laugh—in pieces. Today of all days.”
His voice was breaking up. Thoughts blending with words. Erin grasped at the green blood oozing from his body.
“I can’t—how do I stop the bleeding?”
He didn’t answer her. Klbkch only sighed. He stared up at the sky. His silver blades lay next to him, coated with blood. His voice faded away. Amused, disappointed in himself, and so bitterly tired. He looked only once at the dead Worker, and then his mandibles twitched.
He turned his head north, as if staring a thousand miles at something he had left behind. At last, his voice broke, and he called out as the young woman held his hand. She didn’t know who he was speaking to.
“I was weary. Forgive me.”
Klbkch looked as if he wanted to say something else. But then his head lowered. He fell silent and still. Erin couldn’t tell if he was breathing. She put her hand next to his mandibles, but she could feel nothing. No breath of air. Nothing.
She stared down at Klbkch. He was bleeding. She had to stop it. She had to heal him. But he’d used her potion.
She needed help. She needed Relc or Pisces.
“Someone!”
Erin looked around and shouted. But there were only the dead Goblins.
“Help. Help me.”
Erin whispered. She looked at Klbkch. He wasn’t moving. He’d curled up into a ball. He was still bleeding.
She had to get help. She had to.
Erin shook. She didn’t know what to do. But she had to—she had to—
Erin slapped herself. She hit herself so hard in the face that the world turned black for a moment. But she’d stopped shaking. She grabbed Klbkch and hauled him up.
Fireman’s carry. She’d learned how to do that in class. It didn’t work the same way with Klbkch because he was bulkier in places. Still, she got him onto her shoulders. He waslight. Was it the lost blood?
Run. Erin was already running. She dashed down the hill with Klbkch on her back. Blood ran down her shoulders and soaked her clothing. Blood. She couldn’t feel anything from the burden she carried on her back. No heartbeat, no breathing. Only blood.
Erin ran and ran. Her heart was bursting out of her lungs, and each breath was fire. She felt the muscles tearing in her legs. But she ran on. And she felt the blood as it slowly dripped down her body and onto the grass.
——
Below Liscor, the Queen of the Antinium stirred. She looked up through dirt and bedrock. She knew. Already, her Soldiers marched towards the surface at her command. They emerged from hiding places, tunnels, and the Watch and the citizens screamed of The Black Tide.
The doom of Rhir. But they were too late.
Too late, and she had been resting. She felt it. The Free Queen reached up, feelers trying to hold—her voice breaking with disbelief. Pain.
“Klbkchhezeim?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T02:52:55)
:(
typo below
Suhail (2023-03-10T08:54:52)
It was the twelve, pouring over a little piece of paper and pieces of smaller paper. -> poring
juppie (2023-03-13T11:00:00)
This still hits hard.
Aerilee (2023-03-15T01:22:28)
This one would learn more of chess for the sake of imparting knowledge onto other Workers
I think it’s supposed to be ‘unto’?
Darby (2023-03-19T20:18:12)
She had to heal him. But he’d used her potion.
“But she’d used his potion.” Or “he’d used his potion.”
Ryuuku (2023-03-22T08:56:58)
“They were packed next to each other, thin walls of dirt separating them into alcoves that were barely more than roundeddivorts where a Worker could ‘sit’ and sleep.” Should that be divots?
Typo (2023-04-26T23:13:35)
One second the Worker was grabbing at Goblin,
One second the Worker was grabbing at a Goblin,
steve (2023-05-22T14:30:27)
“barely more than rounded divorts” -> “barely more than rounded divots”
Scrifty (2023-11-08T00:10:12)
W H A T
Toni (2023-11-27T02:22:36)
Damn, I mean considering even Klb had so much trouble against all those goblins, Erin’s honestly already well on her way to becoming a badass, huh?
this was pretty sad, though. At least two points here where I kinda felt the urge to cry
yagoldt (2024-01-11T13:09:30)
Yeah don’t kill the goblins??
Nicnom (2024-03-17T08:40:41)
Oh God, I started off so happy at them brute forcing chess! Started …
ThatOneHarpy (2024-03-19T22:05:12)
Yeah absolutely let them get their numbers up ??
lighto782 (2024-04-15T02:09:49)
Stabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstab
when I read this part I wished she will just wake up from a bad dream :(
Aeri (2024-05-28T06:14:28)
Erin was really only up against a few, not the whole mass of 40, and didn’t really even knock any out of the fight permanently. She honestly wasn’tthat much of a threat to them, even if she wanted to be.
Klbkch was not only fighting all of them, but having to protect Erin as well. He took at least two attacks that would have hit her if he had dodged. Besides that, even if they are weak individually, fighting 40 of anything by yourself would be tough, especially if they showed even a modicum of tactics like the goblins do. That he could take out 30-odd in those circumstances is pretty crazy.
Lysantdra (2024-08-28T00:02:37)
It is 2 in the morning. Why are you doing this to me
sulfurious (2025-01-17T00:52:04)
But he’d used her potion.
But he’d used his potion on her. (it was never Erin’s potion)
Her heart was bursting out of her lungs
Her heart was bursting out of her chest
Night Owl (2025-02-10T09:35:02)
If Klbkchhezeim just died like that then I am truly beyond disappointed, as he was my favourite character up until now, and seeing him die for plot progression hurts man.         I thought he will stick along longer or hoped his demise will be more epic and grandeur then this. Tsk

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.30
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-30/

Silence. Erin walked in it. It was the numbing static in her head. It was the sound of tears falling in her heart. It was everything.
She walked in the darkness. Short, narrow walls of dirt enclosed her. She followed a massive shape as it led her through the tunnels.
Her arms were breaking, her lungs screaming as she carried Klbkch, almost falling, towards the gates, and a horn began to blare.
Noise. Erin still heard it echoing in her memories. They were scattered. She still felt like she was there, blood running sticky down her legs. Not hers. Seeing Liscor’s gates rising as Drakes and Gnolls ran at her, shouting.
“Klbkch? Summon the Captain! Get a [Healer], now!”
“—Not breathing. Contact his Hive! Get the Human out of the way!”
“Klb? Buddy? Speak to me.”
Voices. Them grabbing her, almost throwing her aside but taking him as carefully as a baby. He was cold. Curled up. His skin—his chitin was cold, and she felt nothing.
—Bending down, throwing glowing liquid on him. Relc slapping a still face until someone knocked him down. A bright, blue badge covered in green blood. Running feet, a Drake shouting orders until a thousand Antinium, giants, were forcing their way through the crowd. And grabbing Klbkch. And her.
Taking her down into a place no one could follow. Through walls of dirt and staring faces, each one like Klbkch’s. Workers. And Soldiers. Until she came here.
To a chamber where a giant sat.Made of the same brown-black chitin as the others but incomparably vast. A feeler, not a hand, shivered in the darkness, and a voice deep, resonant, and female—spoke.
Then Erin woke from her dream.
“—Human. What have you done?”
Erin looked up. She was standing in a massive cavernous room. Across from her,something sat in the shadows. The Queen of the Antinium under Liscor.
The gargantuan figure moved. Erin couldn’t see. It was so dark. But she caught a glimpse of a massive, bloated body and bulbous backside. The massive Queen of the Antinium was so huge she couldn’t move from her spot.
The Queen raised one massive foreleg. She wasn’t like her subjects, who looked vaguely humanoid. The Queen was completely insectile, and her wide, faceted eyes had no pupils nor color to them. They were blank, foreign, unreadable—yet hostile, a dull glow reflecting off the smooth surfaces under the dim light as they focused on the human before her. Erin could not read her face, but she saw the pain and anger. Even in this creature, in her voice.
She waited, but Erin said nothing. So the Queen continued.
“Your name is Erin Solstice. I have summoned you to explain the death of my subject to me. My…Klbkchhezeim.My Prognugator. Klbkch of the Centenium. Do you know what you have done?”
Erin looked at the Queen. She didn’t know what to say. Her chest was hurting, but her heart was already broken. They’d taken his body away. She felt like she was still dying. She couldn’tfeel the pain, it was so great.
The Queen gestured behind Erin. She pointed to the two silent giants flanking the doors.
“Do not fear my Soldiers. They will cause you no harm if you answer.”
Erin glanced over her shoulder. She’d been grabbed in the midst of the confusion. A group of giant Antinium had swept her out of the guard barracks against her will and the protests of the other guards. Now, they silently watched her.
The two guards that stood in the back of the massive chamber were far taller than the Workers. A head higher and thicker and stronger by far. Unlike Klbkch or the Workers, these Antinium were nearly twice their size, with massive forearms and spiked, sharp gauntlets formed of their exoskeleton.
What was strangest and scariest about them was that they held no weapons. Instead, their four arms were bent, and they appeared to be ready at any moment to leap on Erin. Their hands—Erin saw their hands had no real digits, just awkward stumps and tearing barbs. These Antinium were clearly soldiers, built for war.
These ones had been made to kill.
“Erin Solstice. I hold you accountable for the death of Klbkchhezeim.Speak.”
Erin looked back at the Queen. She opened her mouth and didn’t know what to say. There was nothing. The silence in her was too large for words.
But she had to speak.
“I’m sorry. I never meant for it to happen.”
The Queen loomed above her. Her deep voice deepened further.
“Is that all you have to say?”
Erin shook her head.
“I don’t—I can’t say sorry enough. Klbkch—he died protecting me. He was a hero. I’m so sorry.”
The Queen silently watched as Erin wiped at her eyes. She raised a single feeler.
“Human. You misunderstand me. Klbkchhezeim’s death is…is. He is Antinium. Workers and Soldiers die, and if Liscor did not cause this, there is no need for war. But his death was wasted—needless. I am told he perished fighting Goblins. Goblins. Saving you. That is what I find unacceptable.”
“…What?”
Erin looked up, and the Free Queen stared down at her. Her voice was confused, Erin realized. Confused and angry and hurt.
“Klbkchhezeim was more than a match for a hundred Goblins. A hundred Hobgoblins could not ambush him.He is Klbkch of the Centenium. He—was—Klbkch the Slayer. The only reason he could have fallen to a mere forty Goblins was because he placed your life above his. And he lost a Worker of—the first Worker in—”
Her voice was rising, her feelers waving. The Queen fell silent. Her trembling voice returned to normal, and she spoke slowly in the darkness.
“He has paid for his folly. But his foolishness has cost the Antinium living within the city greatly.”
Erin stared at the Queen in shock. In turn, she felt the giant Antinium’s eyes piercing her to the core.
“I am disappointed, Erin Solstice. I had expected better of my Prognugator’s judgment. He spoke highly of you. Klbkch called you a Human worthy of emulation. But I see nothing to back up his claims. I see no reason why he would have wasted his life savingyou.”
What? Erin’s head felt fuzzy. What was she saying?
The Queen continued. It was hard to discern emotion in her monotone rumble, but there was a definite element of irritation in her voice.
“My Workers play games in their resting periods. They gain useless levels in classes not needed for their work.Three have already become Aberration. This experiment has created naught but waste. My Prognugator’s judgment has been in error.”
Erin struggled for words.
“He—he was only doing what I asked him to. He washelping. He saved my life.”
She felt the titanic gaze on her. Erin had to look down. She couldn’t meet the Queen’s eyes.
“Nevertheless. Klbkch died a failure.”
Erin’s head rose. She stared at the Queen.
“Take that back.”
The Queen’s presence beat down on Erin, but this time, she refused to look away.
“I will not. My Prognugator’s foolishness has cost Liscor and the Antinium this day. He died a failure.”
“He was ahero!”
Erin shouted at the Queen. The guards behind her stirred, but the Queen raised one foreleg.
“He died worthless, against enemies he should easily have overcome. He died a failure.”
“No. He was tired. Tired and sorry.”
Erin mumbled the words. The Queen stared down at Erin. Her body had begun rising, and her feelers had risen—like a hammer, over Erin’s head. Now they trembled, in some paroxysm Erin didn’t understand. Her voice shook.
“Klbkchhezeim said that?”
Erin didn’t know why the Queen froze. She only bowed her head in silence. The Free Queen’s voice was strangled, and her mandiblesclicked until she spoke.
“Then he is a fool as well as failure. We were so close. He had no right to lose hope.”
Erin stared up at the Queen. The massive insect regarded her and then looked away. She flicked one foreleg at her.
“You do not understand. You, the creatures of the above world, fail to understand all of what is Antinium. Enough. I waste valuable time. You are not worth killing.”
Erin was shaking. The two Antinium Soldiers marched up to her, but she stepped forwards towards the Queen.
“Why’d you summon me then? To tell me how worthless Klbkch was? He wasn’t. You’re wrong.”
The Soldiers seized her roughly. The Queen gestured, and they released her.
“You are not what we seek. You cannot understand. Klbkch must have been mistaken. I see nothing to admire. Only his failure written large. Begone from this place, Erin Solstice. I have much to do.”
The Queen slowly turned away towards the far wall. Erin was dragged out of the cavern by the two Soldiers. She wanted to say something, anything to the Queen of the Antinium. But she could think of nothing.
——
Erin walked out of the entrance to the Antinium tunnels and back into the light of the day. She blinked, shading her eyes. The two Antinium Soldiers turned and left without a word. She was alone.
For a moment. Even as Erin looked around, another Drake walked up to her. He was the yellow gatekeeper Drake.
“Human. You’re wanted by the Captain. Follow me.”
Erin walked after him without a word of protest. As she walked down the street, she was conscious of people watching her as she passed by. Some murmured and pointed. Others flinched away.
She realized she was still covered in blood. Hers, the Goblins’, and Klbkch’s.
The yellow Drake stopped when he realized Erin wasn’t following him. He turned and opened his mouth angrily until he saw her throwing up. Silently, he passed her a water bottle and cloth. Erin wiped her face and rinsed her mouth. She walked on.
——
The guard barracks were full of quiet voices and one loud one. They all fell silent when Erin entered. She looked around and saw a blur pushing his way through the crowd of guardsmen.
Two Drakes tried to grab Relc, but he shoved them aside like they were made of paper. More grabbed him as Relc loomed over Erin.
“You.”
She looked up at him. Relc snarled at her. His tail was thrashing around, and his fists were clenched at his side.
“I’m sorry.”
“Sorry?Sorry? Klbkch died protecting you! All because you didn’t want to kill those damn Goblins!”
“I know.”
“This is all your fault.”
“I know.”
Erin stared at the ground. Relc stepped forward, and the other guardsmen all tensed. But he didn’t attack. Instead, he took a deep breath and spoke with a trembling voice.
“I had a good partner. He was a silent guy and a real idiot, but he was one of the best guys I knew. And then he died because he went and tried to protect a damn Human. We never even—Wishdrinks.It was just two days ago we gave him a badge!”
She didn’t know what he meant. Erin squeezed her eyes shut as a bit of spit struck her. She looked up and opened her eyes and saw his sharp teeth opening and closing as he spat at her.
“I’m sorry.”
Relc narrowed his eyes as he stared down at Erin. He tensed—and a huge Gnoll and a Drake with a sword grabbed him.
“Relc—”
He tried to shrug them off, but they refused to let go. The Drake was breathing heavily. He raised an arm, and both of the others had it in their grips, but all he did was point a claw at her.
“I…I don’t want to see you around here again. And if you come running here for help again, I’ll stab you in the gut.Got it?”
Erin looked up at Relc. His thrashing tail stopped dead as he saw her wipe away the tears in her eyes.
“Yeah. You do that.”
She walked over to a seat and sat down. Tears began flowing from her eyes once more. Relc hesitated. He turned away and kicked a chair. It exploded in a shower of splinters.
Erin barely noticed as the pieces of wood rained down around her. She covered her face with her hands, but the tears leaked through her fingers. She heard a door open and a loud, female voice.
“You! Human!”
Erin barely moved. The other Guardsmen moved aside as a female Drake advanced. She marched up to Erin. She glared down and snapped.
“Thanks to you, the only Antinium Guardsman in the city isdead. The fourth highest-level [Guardsman]. A Senior Guardsman—the liaison to the Free Hive…” 
She stopped, looking for words. Her mouth was…smoking. Trails of dark smoke leaked around her lips, and Erin stared at them despite herself. The Watch Captain looked around, and she spoke one word.
“Klbkch. He’s dead.”
All the Watch looked up in silence. The Drake stared blankly around, then looked at Erin.
“Not only that, he died because he wasted his emergency healing potion onyou. Saving you from Goblins that should have been wiped out.”
Relc hammered a fist into a wall and left a dent. Erin didn’t look up, even with the crack of wood.
“Who are you?”
The Drake narrowed her eyes.
“I’m the Captain of the Liscorian Watch. Klbkch was one of my best Senior Guardsmen. Without him, there’s no one to control the Antinium. Without him—if the Queen orders it, Liscor and all of Izril might face another Antinium War.One of their Prognugators is dead. We can only pray they understand it was monsters, not us.”
A moan ran through the Watch House. Erin didn’t know what to say. She looked up, and her eyes were blurry. She knew it was all bad. It sounded bad. But Klbkch?
Klbkch was lying there.Her tears were only for him. She couldn’t take any of the rest in. Erin gulped for words.
“Okay. I’m sorry.”
The Captain’s tail twitched.
“Really? Is that all? From what I’m told, Klbkch had to protect you from a mob of Goblins. You’re no citizen. He should have let them eat you.”
“I guess so.”
Erin didn’t look up. The Captain’s eyes were narrowed in fury, and her tongue flicked out. Shehissed.
“The Liscorian Watch should never have interfered in the affairs of outsiders. You don’t live in Liscor, and you are not one of our citizens. From here on out, the Watch will cease patrols in your area.”
The Captain of the Watch glared at the young woman holding her head in her hands. Erin didn’t look up.
“Is that understood, Human?”
No response. The female Drake’s eyes narrowed dangerously.
“I said,is that understood, Human?”
“You done?”
Erin looked up. Her eyes were red, but she’d stopped crying. She met the Captain’s gaze without flinching.
The female Drake stared at her. She had a scar on the left side of her face. Her scales were light blue. Her eyes were yellow and narrowed with rage. She held Erin’s gaze and then turned away in disgust.
“Get out of my city.”
The Captainslammed the door shut behind her. In the silence, Erin looked around the room at the other guardsmen.
“Klbkch died protecting me. He was a hero. He looked out for me when no one else would, and he helped me even though I’m a Human. He was a good person. I’m sorry that he’s dead.”
She looked at Relc. He looked away.
Erin wiped at her eyes and then walked out of the room.
——
Selys found Erin sitting next to Krshia’s stall in the marketplace. The Human had curled up into a ball and was hiding her head in her arms. A Gnoll, Krshia Silverfang, was standing at her stall as if waiting for another customer.
At first, it seemed like she was ignoring Erin, but then Selys saw how Krshia was staring. Staring—and not even Lism said a word, nor the hostile Drakes and Gnolls standing at a distance. She let Erin weep as Selys hesitantly approached.
“Hi? Erin? Are you—are you okay?”
“Go away.”
Erin didn’t look up. Selys hesitated and then came to stand by the stall.
“Hi, Krshia. Um, how’re you?”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] sniffed and nodded without smiling to Selys.
“Miss Selys. I am well, but Erin is not. She is resting here, away from unkind words. If you have any, you will leave, yes?”
Selys raised one hand as her tail twitched.
“No, not me. I just wanted to see how Erin was doing. I, uh, heard what happened.”
“Everyone in the city has heard.”
Krshia nodded. She finished arranging a display of onions.
“It is a dark time. Others mourn, but many are simply upset. The death of Klbkch, it is a bad sign for the city. He was our link to the Antinium. Without him, there will be trouble, perhaps terrible events. But it is wrong to blame it all on a single Human. So think I and other Gnolls.”
“Really. Really? That’s surprising. I, uh, thought you lot would think differently.”
Krshia shrugged. She crushed a rotten onion and tossed it in a bin of refuse behind her with more force than necessary.
“Blood and death. It is not Erin Solstice’s fault where Klbkch chose to fight and die. It is nother fault the Goblins attacked, yes? We do not blame those who are not guilty.”
“That’s good.”
Selys looked at Erin. She wasn’t moving. Tears trickled down her cheeks.
“Look, Erin, I wanted to talk to you. I know this isn’t a good time, but I don’t think you should go back to your inn. You should stay here, at least for tonight.”
Erin didn’t move. Selys glanced at Krshia. The Gnoll shrugged impassively. Selys tried again.
“I know you felt safe in the inn, but after this, things will be different. It isn’t just about Goblins. If the Watch doesn’t patrol the plains, more monsters will start appearing. Without protection or high levels, you won’t survive.”
Again, no response. But then Erin wiped her eyes on her sleeve before she buried her head back down.
“Look—I could get you a job in the Adventurer’s Guild as a receptionist. Some of the others might not like it, but you’d be safe there, and you’ll earn enough to eat and live in the city.”
This time Erin moved. She shook her head slightly.
“No.”
Selys opened her mouth, but Krshia placed a huge furry hand on her shoulder and shook her head. She squatted down next to Erin.
“Erin. I regret the loss of Klbkch. He was a strange one, one of the Antinium, the Black Tide which came from Rhir, but a good one, yes? Many in the city mourn his death. But he would not want you to die. Without the Watch suppressing the monsters—there will be worse at your door in the wilderness. Even so close to a Drake city. You must know this.”
“And it’s not like you have to stay here forever. We could look into finding you a place in a Human city if you really didn’t like it. It’s just that it’s a bad time to be here. I know it’s not your fault, but the others—”
“I’m not going.”
“Look, Erin, I know how you’re feeling but—”
“I’m not going.”
Erin stood up. Her eyes were swollen and red with tears. Her nose was dripping, and she wiped her face on her sleeve. She glared at Selys.
“I’m going back.”
“Not a good idea. Those Goblins might still be out there.”
“They’re all dead.”
“But—there’s monsters. Just stay here. I have an apartment. You can stay the night, okay?”
“No.”
“Erin,please.”
Selys wanted to say something more, but she looked over Erin’s shoulder and gasped.
“Oh my—”
Erin turned. The street had gone deathly quiet. Every shopper and shopkeeper in the marketplace was looking in the same direction. They slowly backed away as a procession of dark insects slowly walked through the market.
They weren’t Soldier Antinium. They were just Workers, but there were nearly a hundred of them as they slowly walked towards Erin. The group stopped a few feet from her as Selys stepped behind the counter and Krshiasneezed.
Erin looked around. Black-bodied Worker Antinium filled the street. They stood in front of her. Suddenly, they all bowed their heads, and the Worker in front spoke.
“These ones offer condolences to the Innkeeper Solstice.”
Selys whispered in a panicked voice to Krshia and Erin.
“What are they doing? They shouldn’t be here! Someone should call the Watch!”
Krshia nudged Selys hard.
“Silence. Listen.”
The Worker continued.
“These ones wish for the Innkeeper Solstice to heal from wounds received. These ones express their regret for her suffering.”
Erin stared at him stupidly.
“Why?”
The leading Worker appeared confused.
“It is part of custom. These ones are taught to express regret/sadness/loss for death in appropriate mourning moments. To cease work during funerals to not disturb Liscor’s citizens.”
He said this all so abstractly, as if they were rules he had to obey without knowing why. Erin just stared at him.
“But I didn’t die. What about Klbkch? What about your—friend? The other Worker? He died protecting me.”
The Worker paused and then shook his head.
“The Prognugator carried out his duties. The Worker died carrying out his duties. No mourning is necessary for broken shells and dead individuals. These ones merely express regret of individual Klbkch’s failure to protect.”
Erin stared at him.
“So you’re saying you’re sorry I got hurt?”
“These ones express regret for the failure of the Prognugator to protect the Innkeeper Solstice.”
The Worker said it so blankly, almost accusatory, that Erin’s head rose. Her hand tightened on the stall as she pulled herself up.
“Itwasn’t failure. Don’t—don’t say that.”
The Worker froze—then bowed his head again. All the other Workers did likewise, and its antennae trembled.
“This one offers apologies for its mistake.”
She waited, but that was all. It glanced up at her like a child. It didn’t understand why she was mad, but it was afraid of her.
“Can’t you feel sorry? For Klbkch? And your friend?”
“This one apologizes. But this one cannot. These ones offer regret to the Innkeeper Solstice.”
Erin waited. But the Worker just kept its head bowed.
“Is that it?”
“Yes. These ones will disperse to assigned duties. Forgive these ones for disturbing the Innkeeper Solstice and others.”
As one, the Workers turned. Erin hesitated.
“Wait.”
They stopped and turned back to her. She paused and closed her eyes. Erin took a deep breath and then looked at the Worker.
“…Come to my inn. I’ll feed you, and you can play chess with me.”
“What?Erin!”
Selys grabbed for her, but Erin was moving. She reached out and touched the lead Worker on the shoulder. He went very still.
“You said you’re sorry? I’m sorry. It was my fault Klbkch and the other Worker died. And that’s a bad thing. Even if you can’t understand it, I want to do something. Let me help you. Somehow.”
The Worker hesitated.
“These ones are not permitted to leave the city or move about without permission.”
“Why not?”
“These ones are not suitable for independent action. These ones must not be unaccompanied.”
“I’ll accompany you. Just—come with me. Please? It doesn’t have to be all of you. What about just you? What’s your name?”
The Worker went deathly still. All the Workers did. Erin looked at them curiously. Selys gasped and ran forward.
“Erin!”
She grabbed the Human’s shoulder urgently. Selys whispered loudly in Erin’s ear.
“Younever ask them what their names are! They don’t have any!”
“Why not?”
The Worker shuddered and looked at Erin. Selys raised one hand as her tail thrashed wildly.
“They justdon’t!”
“This one has no name. This one is not important. This one is not an individual.”
“You could be.”
“Erin!”
This time, Selys tried to grab Erin and drag her away. Erin fought her hands off.
“Why? What’s wrong?”
She poked the Worker in the chest.
“You’re an individual. You’reyou. And the Worker who died? He was someone. Klbkch was someone. You’re all important, and that means when one of you dies, it’s a bad thing.”
The Worker shook his head as the other Workers around him backed away. He began trembling and shaking. Erin thought she knew him. Wasn’t he part of the twelve who had come to the inn? Now—his hands shook, all four of them, a tremor as if he were suddenly freezing. It was in his voice too.
“This one is not an individual. This one cannot be.”
“You are. Can’t you understand? You’re all special.”
“Stop saying thAt.”
The [Innkeeper] froze. She heard a strange sound in the Worker’s voice. It was trembling, and Selys turned dead white under her scales.
“Tribes—Erin, back away.”
Krshia reached below the counter of her stall as the people in the street suddenly backed away. The Workers closed around the one who Erin was talking to. He was clutching at his head.
“stOp talkinG.Stop askING me—”
“Hey. Hey…don’t be upset. I’m just asking you…are you okay?”
She reached out, and he grabbed her arm. So hard her skin bruised. Cold chitin dug into her skin, and Selys made a sound as Krshia slowly pulled something up and pulled a bowstring back. But Erin just stared into the Worker’s gaze.
She was crying. Tears ran down her cheeks. They had stopped, and now they returned. The Worker gazed at her.
“Stop tHaT.Stop weeping for hiM. Stop aSKING mE—”
His fingers hurt. But Erin didn’t draw away or move as Krshia hissed at her. She just reached out and gently took hold of one of his arms.
“I’m sorry. But he was kind to me. Don’t hate him. Don’t say bad things about him. He saved me.”
“You don’t know what hewas.”
The Worker whispered. He was shaking so badly now that she saw his mandibles opening and closing. Opening and closing, and a razor mouth behind them. His fingers began to dig into her skin.
“Don’t ask—this one is not Klbkch. Not individual. We are worthless. Just like the one who died there. No names. Not like him.” 
It was almost pleading with her. Erin looked at the Worker, and she whispered back.
“You could be. I wish I knew that Worker’s name. I wish I’d known him.I wish I could do it all again. You don’t have to have a name. But do you want to?”
A sound like a keening scream came from the Worker’s mouth. A third hand rose from her arms and grabbed Erin’s throat. It began totighten, and Krshia whispered a word as she swung up her bow.
Then the Worker looked into Erin’s eyes, at the blurred hazel depths filled with tears. It shook and shook until it seemed like it could shake no more and the world was falling to pieces. Its world. It let go of her suddenly and stumbled backwards.
Eight Workers had been dragging it back, but the single Worker had been locked in place so fiercely that their fingers and arms had been cracking its shell without moving the Worker. Now, they tumbled back. An arrow passed straight over the Worker’s head andthunked into Lism’s stall. The Drake stared at it. Then—at the Worker.
He lay on his shell, staring up at the sky. Erin stared down at him—and appeared in his line of sight. Someone was shouting for the Watch—but the Worker didn’t move. He didn’t scream or shriek. He just lay there.
“Are you alright?”
She stared down at him. Slowly, the Worker got up, and the other Workers pulled Erin back, making a shield between her and—
This one. The citizens of Liscor, Krshia—some had drawn blades and others were calling for the Watch, but the Worker did not shout. His trembling had ceased.
He felt at his shell and looked around. For a long time, no one said a word. He stared at Erin, and then at last, spoke. Wonderingly, confused.
“This one—I understand. This one has become I.”
Selys gasped in horror. The Worker stared down at his hands and then looked up.
“I understand sorrow. I understand regret for the death of individual Klbkch and Worker. I was wrong. It was a sad thing. For Klbkch. For the Worker. Then death is sad. Then it is all…sad.”
He looked around, and the Worker’s antennae waved. His hands shook, but without the wildness of before. He stared around as if a great weight suddenly rested on him. He looked at his kin, and they were frozen. But Erin just nodded.
“Good.”
Erin didn’t notice the other Workers backing away. The Worker that she’d addressedquivered. His hands opened and closed restlessly. Selys and the other Drakes instantly backed up. Krshia slowly reached below her counter for another arrow. But the Worker was just prodding at his head, feeling at his body as if it had changed suddenly and he was no longer sure if he had the right one.
“I. I am. I have become I. I do not understand.”
He looked around, up at the sky, at Erin. He shook like a leaf.
“If this one—is not—how are the many one? An individual cannot exist—the many are—how am I?”
He shook. Erin grabbed him.
“I don’t know. I try not to think about it. Come on. Let’s play a game of chess.”
He stared at her. Selys was trembling, and the air in the marketplace was tense. But then the Worker nodded.
Erin turned.
“I’m going.”
She began walking out of the marketplace. The Worker followed her, and the rest of the Antinium followed in a silent, winding procession. Selys stared at Erin’s back, eyes wide. She looked at Krshia.
“She’s insane. They’re going to kill her.It’s going to kill her. That was an Aberration—”
Krshia nodded. Her teeth were bared, and her fur was standing on end, but she had a quiver of arrows now.
“Yes. Itwas an Aberration but it wasn’t. At least—not yet. Is that how it happens? I do not know. Let us follow quickly, yes? Silverfangs, to me! Get every [Warrior] you can find.”
“What?”
Selys yelped, but Krshia was already gone from behind her counter. She barked something at another Gnoll and strode in the direction the Antinium had gone. Selys stared around at the other wide-eyed Drakes and then ran after Krshia.
——
The Worker walked behind Erin, and his fellows followed the two in a silent mass. She left the city gates behind, ignoring the Drake shouting at her. She walked as fast as she could, trying not to think, to feel.
Behind her, the Worker shuddered andtwitched as he walked. Erin ignored that, but she heard him begin to mutter as he walked along.
“I. I am. But it is wrong. All is wrong. When the many become one, it is Aberration. I am Aberration.”
“Why? What’s wrong?”
The Worker just looked at her blankly, as if trying to explain reality to her.
“I cannot be individual. I cannot have names. I cannot choose my own actions. It is wrong. I am no longer one of the Workers. I am…me. This is wrong.”
“Klbkch did it.”
The Worker shook his head. He opened and closed his four hands restlessly.
“He is Prognugator. I am—was Worker. I should not be.”
Erin turned her head.
“You’re fine. You should be. It’s fine to be a person and not a thing.”
“I cannot understand. I am Aberration. All is Aberration. This Hive—I cannot accept it. Why am I sad?Why am I sad? What have you done to me?”
“…I’m sorry. But I wanted you to feel something.”
“I feel. I feel all.”
“Good.”
Erin kept walking, but the Worker stopped. He startedtwitching again, and then his gaze snapped to the back of her head. Slowly, the Worker increased his pace until he was right behind Erin. She didn’t notice, lost in her thoughts.
In the silence, the Worker reached out for Erin as he walked behind her. The other Workers watched as they followed. They said not a word.
“I don’t know what it means to be me.”
Erin said it as she walked along. She didn’t know how to explain it to the Worker. She had to say—something. To tell him what it was like.
“I don’t even know what it means to be Human. All I know is that there’s a big hole in my heart. Because Klbkch and the Worker died. I don’t know who I am or what I’m doing. I’m just—sad.”
The Worker paused. His hands hesitated at the back of Erin’s neck.
“Why?”
Erin smiled. Tears rolled down her cheeks as she walked through the grass.
“I just am. That’s how it works. You don’t get to choose to be someone. You just are. Even if you’re not special. Even if you don’t want to be. You just are.”
He paused. Slowly, the Worker lowered his hands.
“I do not understand. But—I am. And I too am sad.”
“Good. That’s—that’s good.”
Erin sniffed and wiped at her eyes and nose. The Worker slowly walked faster until he was next to her.
“Innkeeper—Erin Solstice. I am sorry for the death of Klbkch and the Worker. I regret their death and your suffering.”
“Thank you.”
They walked on in silence. Eventually, the Worker spoke again.
“I am no longer a Worker. I am an individual. I would like a name.”
She looked at him.
“I can’t help you. I’m not—I can’t give you one. Couldn’t you ask your Queen?”
He shook his head.
“I—do not wish to. I must have a name. Where may I find one?”
“I don’t know. Can’t you choose one for yourself?”
The Worker paused. He turned his head to Erin and hesitated before nodding.
“I will do so.”
She waited. After a minute of walking, the Worker spoke again.
“I would like to be known as ‘Pawn.’ It is a fitting name for this individual.”
Erin nodded. She gave him a weak smile.
“Hi, Pawn.”
“Hello. Erin Solstice.”
“…Will your friends be like you?”
Pawn looked over his shoulder. The other Workers looked away. He bowed his head.
“They are afraid. They will not be like me.”
“That’s fine.”
“But I have told them what it means to regret the passing of individuals. They understand.”
“Really? Good.”
Pawn nodded.
“They—we. We are all sad.”
“…I’m glad.”
They came to the inn on the hill and the bodies. Erin stared down at the blood and collapsed. She’d forgotten they were still there.
Pawn caught her before she hit the ground. He helped her up, and Erin sat down while the other Workers surrounded the area. They paused as they surveyed the wreckage of the inn and corpses and then seemed to come to a decision. As one, the Workers began hauling the corpses away while others of their number began digging several hundred feet away from the inn. More still entered the inn and began dragging out broken wood.
Erin sat in the grass and looked away. She glanced up as one of the Workers dragged out the body of their comrade. Then she threw up.
Eventually, Erin felt someone tap her on the shoulder. She looked up and saw it was Krshia.
“Erin Solstice. I was looking for you, yes? The Workers, they have finished their cleaning.”
She looked and saw it was true. The area around the inn was clean. Even the grass had been cleaned with water, and the Workers stood silently around the inn. They were all staring at her.
“Thanks.”
She said it to Pawn and then to the other Workers. They nodded as one.
“We assist to maintain order and preserve peace.”
“Thank you.”
Krshia stared at the sign above the Wandering Inn. She looked around and then followed Erin as the Human stepped inside.
“So, this is your inn, yes? It looks better than I had thought. Worth defending.”
Erin nodded. She looked around the empty room. The Workers had cleaned it almost to perfection. All the broken chairs and tables were gone. But they hadn’t touched one thing.
A splintered chess piece lay on the floor. Erin slowly walked over to it. It stared up at her, a Drake caught in mid-strike, a spear in his hands.
She looked down at the broken knight piece on the floor and picked up the base. Carefully, Erin put it in her pocket and looked around. Silent Workers filled the room. More stared through the windows.
Erin looked around. She saw the chess board and picked it up. It was heavy in her hands. She remembered sitting at a table and staring at a brown ant across the board.
Her eyes stung, but there weren’t any tears left. Erin brushed at her eyes and then turned with the chess board.
Slowly, Erin brought the board out and set it down in the grass outside the inn. The Antinium formed a huge circle around her, and Pawn stood in the center next to Erin. She sat down and placed the board in front of her. She gestured, and Pawn hesitated, then sat opposite her.
Erin looked at him. He was a bit shorter than Klbkch, thinner, and his features were somehow less sharp than Kblkch’s had been. He looked nothing like Klbkch at all, in fact. But her heart still hurt to look at him.
Slowly, Erin put the broken knight on her side of the chess board. Pawn rearranged the pieces on his side. She stared at him. She stared up at the sky. It was too blue, too pristine for a day like this. It wasn’t even night yet.
The sky should be raining blood. The world should be filled with darkness, and the earth should have opened up and swallowed her whole. She should have been paralyzed by sadness, but Erin just felt hollow. She understood nothing. It wasn’t fair. It wasn’t right.
And there was nothing she could do about it. So Erin moved a piece on the board. The broken knight moved up to C3. She looked at Pawn. He stared back, and the rest of the Workers stared with him at the Human who wept for Antinium.
Erin bowed her head.
“Let’s play chess.”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T02:53:55)
reply with your typos.
im sad. this story is sad. but good. very good. the best
sam (2023-03-14T10:33:35)
I think Erin is being annoying here.
Fkg (2023-03-19T00:58:39)
>We can onlypray they understand it was monsters, not us.”
Change to hope? It’s an inconsistency.
darkgills (2023-04-21T22:53:10)
Huh? How
Thetacron (2023-06-23T02:40:52)
“Her eyes were yellow and narrowed with rage”
Zevara has “light purple” eyes in 2.02
greycat (2023-07-19T19:56:04)
It might be a vestigial word that they use without knowing its origin, like how the call the chess piece a “bishop” without knowing what that means.  Author’s choice.
Mana (2023-08-03T02:06:22)
I bawling my eyes out
Great writing!
frits (2023-08-22T08:10:07)
why they need to do klb that way? Now I’m sad
Takusaka (2023-10-03T22:55:25)
Wtf is this guy saying
marine (2023-10-23T17:56:40)
I thought they called it a bishop because the creator (probably also someone from earth) called it that
Toni (2023-11-27T02:48:30)
I fear that Erin may inadvertently be the catalyst for a disaster involving the antinium, but for now I’m simply happy that she gets to prove the queen wrong. That saving her was a good decision
Nelo (2023-12-09T23:53:20)
Totally agree, because of her stubbornness we lost ant dude and almost created an aberration
yagoldt (2024-01-11T14:18:15)
It’s all she does to be honest
Sbiiii (2024-03-09T02:10:20)
There should have not been goblins anymore if erin didn’t stop to kill the goblins, she must be accountable for every kill the goblins made. The writer forcing plots
Nicnom (2024-03-17T09:16:48)
Oh! Do they actually individuate so late after existing, after having had experiences? Thatwould be hard.
Now, I don’t think Erin is “being annoying.” It’s easy to be a dreamer when you weren’t raised in all this violence in this world; Erin faced it in small amounts, and wasn’t woken up. Now she’s faced it enough that she’s deciding to dream. That’s not just bringing randomness from our world, but an actual determined character. Loving it.
fisrtname lastname (2024-06-12T23:07:45)
Ok, I can’t take this anymore. I’ve been silently reading this story for the last few chapters, sometimes checking the comments and I cannot believe how little praise you have! You writing is superb, I was immediately intrigued by the characters and the world. The plot beats are interesting and well-paced and having multiple povs isn’t annoying in your story! Thank you so much for creating such an awesome world and I can’t wait to keep reading more!
fisrtname lastname (2024-06-12T23:09:32)
Can’t believe the way people talk about your characters. Don’t they see complexity?
wanderer (2024-06-14T20:26:13)
Relc is just a hothead, loyal but burns with emotions sometimes. His best friend died, he’s griefing and lashing out. That’s normal. Erin had the same thing where she told Klb she hated him.
Lysantdra (2024-08-28T00:15:13)
This one cannot-
Fuck you, free will
Mr anderson (2024-09-04T21:01:58)
The disaster is already coming, she may trigger it early or help avoid it but at the moment the hive will betray the city in about 5 years
SamArcher72 (2024-12-11T23:08:02)
Forget plot , I still can’t believe we lost Krbkchzeim!!, R.I.P- you were my favorite Antinium.
Night Owl (2025-02-10T10:39:43)
The ch did made me feel less disappointed but still disappointed Klbkchhezeim shouldn’t have gone like that.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.31
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-31/

Erin sat on a grassy hilltop and played a game of chess. It made life easier. When she was playing, she could forget about life. She could forget about suffering.
It didn’t end such things. Chess was an escape. If you were bleeding or crying, it couldn’t help. Playing chess would bring no one back. There was an irony to the game; it was a complex competition still popular hundreds of years after it had been invented.
A computer would always win. Yet some people, like Erin, had spent great portions of their lives playing this game. In a world of computers and countless other things to devote your time to, Erin had become one of the world’s experts in this game.
And she was an expert. She was no Grandmaster or even an International Master, but she had reached a level beyond most players as a girl. Then the pressure, the game no longer being fun, and the futility of playing this game when real tragedy occurred, when it had no point, came crashing down on her.
All that was the same Erin who sat on the grass outside her inn. The fall was changing the colors of this place, and the wind was blowing at the top of the steep hill. If there were only some trees with autumn leaves…this would have been a perfect moment. A hill where she could sit in peace. No monsters. No death.
Klbkch’s blood and the blood of Goblins still stained the grass elsewhere. Gnolls and Antinium had found some of the bodies that had been left untouched. They were burning them. Erin should have stood and helped, but she was so weary. Her eyes were red from tears and she had no more to give. So she sat and played chess.
Erin moved her pieces on the chess board, pausing, considering, moving, retreating, taking. It was a dance of strategy and perception, and she had learned many of the steps long ago. But chess was always different with every game. That was why she could lose herself in it.
And yet, it wasn’t just calculation that Erin did. A chess player played against an opponent, and unless it was a computer, they read the other player and danced with them. Mind games were part of chess, just like basic strategy and knowing fundamental moves were. But Erin had never played against a mind like the one that sat opposite her.
She looked up over her pieces at her opponent, the Worker with a name.
Pawn. He was staring at the board, pondering his next move. His shaking was gone. He no longer spoke in a trembling whisper, and he was—calm. Calm, and as if he were the very grass upon which they sat. Blown away by the wind in this vast sky. Yet he did play, quickly, placing the pieces with the same confidence as Erin did, if not more.
Something was wrong with him. It wasn’t just that he had a name. Erin didn’t understand the Antinium, but she understood chess players. Something had seriously gone wrong with him.
He was toogood. Their pieces clicked on the board as Erin Solstice realized she was losing. She had beaten state champions and even played Grandmasters, a rare honor.
And she was losing flawlessly. She could have blamed it on recent events, her lack of sleep, but her mind felt clear, beyond exhaustion and grief. Her focus deepened as she spoke.
“I still don’t get it. Where do levels come from? Why do people have them? Why do people only level up when they sleep?”
“I do not know, Erin Solstice. These are mysteries of the world. They are what they are, yes?”
Krshia shifted in her seat in the grass. She sat with Selys, inside the circle of watching Antinium Workers, but distinctlyapart from them. She was calm, at least in that she was watching Erin play Pawn, but Selys kept glancing around at the silent Workers nervously.
“Fine. But if that’s the case, why don’t we get levels for everything? Like…walking. Is there a [Walker] class?”
Krshia shook her head.
“Walking is something we do, not something we live for, yes? Only things that we make our goals and dreams form classes. However, there is a [Runner] class.”
Erin glanced up, exasperated.
“But that makes no sense!”
“People run for a living, Erin. I’ve never met anyone who walks. That kind of class would be a [Traveller] or a [Journeywoman]. You see? No wait, [Journeywoman] is an apprentice class. See? Now you’re gettingme confused.”
Selys sounded exasperated too, but she thought Erin had a point. The [Innkeeper] frowned and waved a pawn in her direction before she put it down.
“But thatdoes mean you could get a class for eating, right?”
“You mean a [Gourmet]? I’ve heard some rich merchants and nobility have that class. Lifestyle, Erin. I hear there are some fat slobs who live all their lives just partying and living life up. [Hedonists].”
“No way. Really? Okay, I think I get it. But people can have multiple classes, right?”
Selys nodded. She was the bigger expert on classes, apparently. It probably had to do with her being a receptionist. Erin frowned, looked at a knight, and nearly ran right into the trap Pawn had set. How had he become so good?
“In theory, you could have as many classes as you want. But in practice, even most Adventurers only have three or four classes, tops. It’s because you don’t just get a class even if you qualify for it. It has to become part of your life.”
“Oh, I get it.”
Selys paused. Her tail curled up as she sat with her claws folded politely in her lap. Erin had noticed Drakes were expressive with their tails where their faces told nothing. Krshia, on the other hand, had a perfect poker face, and her tail wasn’t nearly long enough to give anything away.
“Um, did…no one ever tell you this when you were growing up, Erin? I mean,everyone knows this stuff. It’s basic.”
“Even the Antinium? Even the Workers?”
Pawn looked up from the board.
“Yes, Erin Solstice. We are taught such things as we are formed in Birther Sacs. All Workers know of leveling, but we seldom do.”
“Why? I’ve gained ten…yeah, ten levels this month.”
Krshia and Selys exchanged a glance. Even the Workers twitched their antennae at each other in their seats.
“Are you serious?”
Erin looked up and saw Selys gaping at her.
“What? I’m only Level 10. Isn’t that low?”
“It is—but—I mean, itis, but no one levels up that fast! Erin, normally someone has to apprentice to someone else for years before they hit Level 10. Most kids—well, most people our age are barely Level 14 in their chosen profession around now. Maybe they have other classes—my friend, Drassi, switches jobs every other week, so she’s barely got levels in anything but [Gossip]. Still! Ten levels in a month?”
“Really? Only Level 14? That just seems so…low.”
Again, Erin had the impression she was the only person in the group that thought that way.
“Well, Level 100 is the highest, right? Doesn’t that mean most people would get to…I dunno, Level 60 or higher before they die?”
Selys laughed—more incredulously than politely.
“You’re joking. Right?”
Erin shrugged. She moved another pawn and took a bishop. Then she realized it was another trap. She was going to lose her other knight.
“Am I wrong?”
Krshia nodded.
“I have known many elderly people. They all have levels in their twenties or sometimes thirties, yes? Few are above Level 40. A great Tribe might have more than one; some tribes have none at all. Few even reach their thirtieth level. If I had to name those above Level 50, there would only be…a dozen in each continent, yes?”
“So someone over Level 70 for example…?”
Selys looked at Krshia. The Gnoll shrugged.
“I don’t think I know of one living, in any class. I’ve heard legends about warriors that reached that level, but those are ancient stories. You know, the kind where a single hero defeats armies by himself or slays Hydras and Krakens single-handedly. People just don’t level that high.”
Erin nodded. She knew they were watching her incredulously, and she knew she was giving away her ignorance. Klbkch had noticed it…
And he was dead. So Erin just went on.
“Okay. I think I get it. So people level up, but not that high. And you can have more than one class, but you have to level that one up from the start, right?”
Selys nodded. It was a different nod than Erin’s. Her neck was longer, so it looked more like a long bob than the short motion Erin was used to.
“Right. If you were a [Spearmaster] like Relc, say, and then you picked up a sword and started using that, you’d probably get the [Warrior] class until you were high enough level and had enough skills for a [Swordslayer] class or a [Duelist] class or something like that.”
“So classes change names?”
“Are yousure no one’s ever talked to you about this?”
“Klbkch explained some of it to me.”
“Oh. Um. Oh, I—well, yes, classes change. It’s just usually in name to represent you’re more specialized or—or you’ve hit a higher level. For instance, [Tacticians] usually become [Strategists], but they can become [Leaders] or [Generals]. It depends on the Skills you have. And what you do with your life.”
“And…I think I remember this. Skills define classes, right? But doesn’t everyone get the same Skills when they level up?”
“No. They do not.”
Krshia stared at Erin. Her eyes narrowed as her brow creased together in a frown. Erin paid no notice. She could see more than people thought when she played chess, and she learned more than she let on. But right now? It didn’t matter.
“Everyone gets different Skills when they level. Often, they’re the same, but some people get them at different times or get different variations on Skills…it’s about need. Need and want determine what Skills we get.”
“And what we do, right? That determines our classes, which determines how our level ups affect us and whether or not our classes change.”
Selys looked relieved Erin was finally getting it.
“Exactly.”
Erin looked at Pawn. He and all the Workers were staring hard at the board. Erin pushed her king over. She’d lost. They reset the board, and she began again. And once more—he moved so surely she felt like he had been playing longer than she had.How had he done this overnight? He’d been an amateur when she met him in her inn. Now…she glanced up, and all saw his antennae waving slowly in thought. It made her smile.
“Do the Workers have lots of levels? You guys work all the time, so you’ve got to have lots, right?”
He paused, and Erin noticed something odd. All of the Workers were focused on the board. Yet when Pawn moved a piece, suddenly they looked at her or elsewhere. But whenever she moved a piece, they immediately focused on the board again to the exclusion of everything else.
“We have very few levels, Erin. I myself am a Level 2 [Butcher] and Level 1 [Carpenter].”
“What? Is it—is it because you’re young or something?”
“I have lived more than half of the average Worker’s lifespan. The Workers do not level up frequently. Some do not level at all.”
Erin turned in her grassy seat to look at Selys and Krshia. The Drake flicked her tongue out in surprise.
“I…didn’t know that.”
“Neither did I. But it is not unexpected, yes? Leveling comes from learning and trials. Without such things there is no experience gained. For one who does the same thing without change, they will not level.”
“Andthat’s probably why you’ve leveled so quickly, Erin. Starting an inn by yourself—that’s got to be a lot harder than just working in one or taking over a business.”
“Oh. Okay.”
It had been the hardest thing Erin had ever done in her life. She looked down at her stomach and legs folded pretzel-style beneath her. They should have been full of holes or scarred from countless stab-wounds. Yeah, it was different than just being an innkeeper in a city.
“So the Antinium don’t level up much? I guess Klbkch was an exception.”
“A big one. He was the Slayer, a Prognugator—”
Selys hesitated. She ducked her head.
“—He was famous among his people, Erin. One of the few Antinium with a name. He—”
Krshia kicked Selys, and the Drake looked guilty, but Erin just nodded. She took all the feelings and put them into the chess pieces. Just for a while. Then she thought of the Soldiers.
“But doesn’t that mean they’re weak, then? If most Drakes around my age are Level 10 or higher, why aren’t they way stronger than all the Antinium?”
“Erin, have youseen those giant soldier-types the Antinium keep in their tunnels? I caught a glimpse of one walking through the streets this morning.”
Selys shuddered. Her tail twitched several times.
“They don’tneed levels, Erin. They’re deadly enough as it is. If you gave them high levels and churned them out the way the Antinium can, they’d be an unstoppable army.”
“Yeah, that’s true. I guess levels can’t replace numbers or muscle, can it?”
“Well, itcan, but only if there’s a big difference in levels. Relc, for instance…he’s strong. He could probably take on a lot of those soldiers. Not that he would—don’t get me wrong! But he’s Level 32, I think. That’s incredibly different than a Level 13 [Warrior]. Does this all make sense, Erin?”
Erin moved another piece and knew how the game would end.
“I think I get it. Thanks for explaining.”
“I just don’t understand why you don’t know all th—”
Selys was cut off as Krshia elbowed her hard in the side. Shehissed rather than squeaked and sat straight up. Krshia broke into the conversation.
“It is curious you do not know of levels, but perhaps your people do not level in the same way we do, yes? Rare classes, perhaps? I understand not all classes are earned equally. Especially in places like the Kingdom of Keys. Samal. Peaceful places.”
Selys frowned at Erin, but the [Innkeeper]’s face was smooth as she moved a piece.
“Yeah. Something like that. Is leveling a big part of people’s lives here?”
“Some would call it…belief. Some yes, some think levels rule everything. No onew…hm, what’s the word? Worships? The gods are dead, Erin. They are dead. In some places, leveling is preached and those with the highest level are worshiped. I have heard it said that to each one of us is a maximum level given, and when we reach that level, we have reached the end of our life.”
Selys rubbed her head as if even talking about this was giving her a headache. Silence fell over the grassy audience. Erin turned in her seat and stared at Krshia.
“Seriously? Some people believe that?”
Krshia’s gaze didn’t waver.
“Yes.”
“That’s stupid.”
Selys gasped, but Krshia shrugged.
“Some believe, Erin. And who is to say what is true?”
“…I guess.”
Erin turned back to the game and saw Pawn had moved. She tipped over her king.
“I forfeit again. Good match.”
Pawn bowed from his seat to her. Erin bowed her head back.
“It was a good game, Erin.”
“It was a great game!”
Selys sat up in her seat and stared at the two players.
“I don’t know much about chess, but I’ve seen Olesm play. You’re way better than he is, Erin. And you…um…Pawn.”
He bowed to her, and she flinched.
“I merely learn from Erin Solstice. She is an expert in this game.”
“And that’s another thing. Howare you so good at that, Erin? Olesm says you’re the best player he’s ever seen or heard of. Are you a high-level [Tactician], then?”
“No.”
Erin was mildly insulted by the suggestion. She helped Pawn reset the board as Selys frowned.
“What about some other class? Or is it a rare Skill?”
“No, it’s justskill. Not the kind you get from leveling up. Just skill in the game. I don’t have any levels besides [Innkeeper].”
“But then how are you so good?”
Erin took her time before answering. She reset her pieces and switched the board around. Silently, Pawn moved a piece forwards, and she countered. Another game began, but she had the same feeling.
“I just played since I was a kid, that’s all. Every day. At first it was just a hobby, y’know? Something I saw an adult do, but then I found I liked it. When I won my first tournament, I was over the moon. And after that, I just kept playing.”
Selys glanced at Krshia.
“But wasn’t chess invented only a few years ago by the Titan of B—”
Again, she received an elbow in the side and glared at Krshia, but then she stared at Erin in sudden interest.
“Well, I guess maybe here it’s new. But chess has been around a lot longer where I come from.”
Erin smiled briefly.
“Alot longer. And lots of people love to play it where I come from. There’s strategy books, lessons online, tutors…I learned it all. Fun fact? I learned how to play chess blindfolded before I learned how to ride a bike.”
She moved another piece. After a second of staring, Pawn moved his queen and took it. She frowned and kept playing. Memory was overlapping with reality.
“I was never the best. But I was good. Really good. For my age? I was incredible. I played in tournaments, I stayed up late playing chess—my parents let me. They knew I had a gift. So I would study chess every moment I had free time, play adults, go to chess clubs and tournaments after school, and I kept winning. But then once you get to a high enough level, you start losing.”
Like now. Just like now, and then, Erin stared at the board and felt outclassed. She moved a rook and watched it die two moves in the future to protect her queen.
“It happens. And it’s not surprising. Even a genius kid can’t beat an adult who’s played thousands—tens of thousands more games. But every time I lost, it crushed me. So I quit.”
“You q—ow! Stop hitting me!”
Erin smiled, but it was fleeting. Her entire focus was devoted to the game before her and speaking. She had to admit, she’d thought she was too good to beat at one point. As if you could talent past experience.
…Much like Pawn was doing, actually. Erin glanced up at him. Thiswas impossible for someone to do, play at this level without practice. It was more than intelligence or experience. She knew patterns and strategy. Yet he won. She went on, remembering.
“Somewhere…sometime I guess I lost interest in playing chess. Or maybe I stopped having fun. I don’t know how to explain it. I was just a kid, but I spent every waking moment playing the stupid game, going to tournaments, studying, winning, losing—I never reallylived. I never played with my friends.”
She moved a pawn. The Workers paused, and then Pawn moved a piece.
“When I realized that, I quit. I just stopped playing, threw away my chess set…I did normal things. It took me years before I even looked at a chess board, and then it was fun to play. But I never wanted to be a Grandmaster again. The pressure, living just for that one game—it’s too much.”
Pawn took her queen, ironically, with a pawn. It couldn’t be avoided, but Erin knew how the game was going to end now.
“I guess I’m just a normal girl who’s better than 99% of the world at chess. But that last 1%. That’s a heck of a large gap.”
“If that is the case, Miss Erin, I shudder to imagine what kind of geniuses live in your home nation.”
At some point, Olesm had appeared, and Pisces, and even three of the four Goblins. Rags sat in the grass among the Workers, silently watching the game. The Antinium looked at the Goblins and then away, but Selys gripped a dagger at her belt as she glared at the Goblins, and Krshia sneezed. Yet there was peace, however tenuous. Perhaps it had to do with the pile of Goblin corpses buried in the unmarked grave a mile away.
“I’m sure you don’t think of it this way, but I cannot imagine a player better than you, Erin. I have Skills that allow me to play the game better than most, but I cannot beat you no matter how hard I try.”
Pisces nodded in agreement. Erin grinned mirthlessly. They hadn’t seen how the last few games had been played.
“Why don’t I level, then? I don’t have any levels in [Tactician], but Pawn tells me the other Workers have leveled up in it. Probably the Goblins as well.”
Erin moved another piece and watched Pawn hesitate. Well, good.
“We’ve got a ranking system in my world. People who play chess in tournaments get a score, which goes up and down when they win or lose. A Grandmaster’s got about 2600 or more points, and the really amazing chess players all have over 2200 points. If you have that many, you’re pretty much one of the best in the nation.”
He decided to lose a knight as opposed to his bishop. Erin frowned. The game was ending. How was he this good? It was impossible. Shefelt like she was playing…
A Grandmaster. But it couldn’t be.
“I got to just over 2000 when I was a kid. That’s insane but—it’s still a huge difference between that and being a Grandmaster. If I kept playing, maybe I’d be around 2400 right now. But either way, I’m one of the best in the place where I lived. In this world—I probably am the best. So why don’t I level?”
Olesm appeared distressed.
“…I could not say. It does not make sense.”
“I can.”
Pisces nodded self-importantly as everyone looked at him. He was still arrogant, but it was muted arrogance, subdued. Erin was grateful for that.
“Classes are based on what we pursue. Yet—by that same notion, what we consider unimportant or trivial fails to trigger the same classes in other people. It is a known phenomenon I studied during my time in Wistram Academy. I wrote a paper that—well, suffice it to say, if you do not consider chess to be anything other than a game, you would not level.”
Olesm and Selys looked incredulously at Pisces.
“A game? But it’sobviously a game.”
“Allow me to rephrase my statement.”
Pisces looked annoyed as he searched for a better explanation.
“What I mean to say is that if Mistress Solstice does not consider any of the tactical applications of learning to play chess—how moving pawns is similar to organizing warriors, for instance—she would not level in the [Tactician] class. To begin with, the amount of experience gained from playing chess is far lower than actual work as a strategist, so if she cared not at all about games of war as opposed to games of pieces…”
“I don’t level. Makes sense.”
Erin tipped over her king and sighed. She’d sped up the rate of her play, but somehow that had only made her game worse, not Pawn’s.
“I lose. Again.”
She sat back in the grass and looked up at the fading sky. Olesm and Pisces stared open-mouthed at Pawn as he carefully set the game back together.
“How are you doing it? No one gets this good overnight. Not even a genius can play like that on his first go.”
Pawn ducked his head in front of Erin’s stare, cowed.
“Apologies. But the Innkeeper Solstice makes a mistake. This one—I am sorry. You misunderstand, Erin. At this moment, you are not simply playing me, but all the Antinium gathered here.”
He gestured around at the grassy knoll where the countless workers, the two Drakes, two Humans, Goblins, and single Gnoll sat.
“The hundred play as one mind. We see a hundred moves and play them all in turn. We think together and play as one body.”
Erin stared at him.
“Hive mind.”
“Just so. We think as one. That is the nature of the Antinium. Even if—that nature has been compromised by the experiment. Though I am individual, that is still true of me. I do not know why, but I feel…”
Pawn gestured silently around at the other Workers. Something was happening, and not even the other Antinium seemed to understand that. Yet if they did feel each other’s thoughts—Erin looked at him.
“And Klbkch? And the Worker? Did you feel…?”
Pawn shook his head, slowly.
“We felt their loss, Erin. But only when we knew it. The Queen remembers. She knows us all. But we—we are Antinium. This is new.”
He stared down at his hands as the [Innkeeper] lowered her eyes. Until Pawn spoke.
“At least, Klbkch will not be gone forever. So long as the Queen lives, she will remember him.”
Erin stopped placing chess pieces back on the board. She stared into Pawn’s fragmented eyes, urgently seeking the truth.
“But what about the other Worker? What about him?”
Her reply was a sad look. Pawn’s antennae stopped moving, and he replied quietly.
“Why would she remember him? He was no Prognugator. He had no name.”
“But he was brave. He—he died for me. Both of them should be remembered.”
Erin clenched a hand in the grass. Pawn looked at her, and then he bowed his head.
“He was the designated Worker who won 54.6% of all games he played. He had no name. If you wish it, I will remember him, Miss Solstice.”
Her head came up. Erin gave Pawn a pained look, but one filled with gratitude.
“So will I. And you won’t forget?”
He shook his head. Pawn peered at Erin’s shimmering eyes and tried to reassure her.
“Do not be sad, Miss Solstice. We are the Antinium. So long as the Hive exists, all will be well. So long as the Queen lives—nothing else matters.”
Erin paused. She looked down and wiped at her eyes.
“I wish that were true.”
The Antinium moved in shock, but some of them turned from Erin to Pawn and listened. Selys shifted in her seat. She bowed her head. Olesm cleared his throat.
“As much as it pains me to say it, Erin, I have to disagree with you. Klbkch was truly unique. He was the first—and only—Antinium ever to be accepted as a member of the Watch. Even among the Antinium’s Prognugators, and there are few, he was the only trusted Antinium to ever exist. Ever since the Antinium entered the city ten years ago, he’s been the one who acted as a liaison between their Queen and our city. He is—was the representative of their race. I, um, feel like I should say that about him now. I quite respected him, despite him being an—an Antinium.”
“I never knew he was so important.”
Krshia nodded.
“He was humble. It was why many liked him. And now he is gone.”
“Not so long as the Queens live. He will be remembered. It is more than any other Antinium has.”
Pawn stared around with something approaching defiance. Erin shook her head.
“But he can’t speak to us, Pawn. He’s gone for us.”
He hesitated.
“I—see. I feel there is much misunderstood, but I respect your grief.”
Awkwardly, he placed his king back in position.
“Will you play another game, Erin?”
“Would it do any good? I can’t win. You—you’re better than I am.”
Olesm and Pisces began to protest, but they were quickly drowned out. Every Workerclicked in denial of Erin’s statement. They made a low buzzing sound that was quiet individually, but sounded like an armageddon of bees together. Selys clutched at Krshia’s fur.
“There is much we learn from each game, Erin Solstice. Please do not stop teaching.”
Erin smiled hollowly.
“Teaching?”
It didn’t feel like that. It felt like running away from everything. But fine. She owed the Workers. She owed the Antinium. So fine.
Slowly, she drew the board away from Pawn, batting away his hands.
“Stop that. Let me show you something.”
She reversed the board and moved the white pawn forwards.
“This—is an Immortal Game.”
Instantly, Pawn stopped protesting. Pisces and Olesm exchanged a glance and moved up. Rags was already sitting next to the board. Erin slowly moved the black pawn up in front of the white one.
“In the history of chess, there are a lot of famous games that we study because of how brilliant they are. Some people call other games Immortal Games as well. And there are a few famous ones. But this. This isthe Immortal Game. Some of the moves aren’t considered as good nowadays, but this is still considered one of the pinnacle moments of chess in my world.”
Krshia breathedin sharply, but Erin’s words passed over the audience as she moved the chess pieces slowly across the board. Slowly, the two sides played against each other. Erin pointed out each gambit, each strategy and attack and counter as the game played out.
“King’s Gambit Accepted to open with, and then the Bishop’s Gambit…see here, he tries the Byran-Counter Gambit with the pawn? And then the white side attacks the queen with a knight here…”
She played the game out from memory. She’d seen it so many times in her head it was second nature to her. The chess players watched, frowning, trying to keep up with the dizzying display before them. But the Workers stared at the board, and as Erin moved into the last phase of the game and took the white queen, Pawn spoke.
“We can see the ending.”
Erin looked up. Olesm and Pisces stared at Pawn in disbelief.
“Show me.”
Pawn hesitated, but then reached out and moved the white pawn up. Erin stared down at the board and played the next move, checking the white side’s king with a queen. Pawn moved the king diagonally, and the game continued.
A perfect game. He played the game exactly how Erin remembered it. In the silence, she toppled the black king and looked up. Olesm and Pisces were staring at Pawn as if he’d turned into a horrific monster.
“Good. Now play me. One last time.”
Silently, Pawn sat opposite Erin and set up the pieces once more. She stared at the board. She was white. Slowly, she moved a pawn forwards.
“I was always afraid of losing as a kid. Always. I studied so hard so I wouldn’t lose. Maybe that’s why I never improved. I thought losing was a terrible thing.”
Pawn waited and studied the board. He moved a knight forwards in response. Erin whispered.
“But chess? Chess isn’t scary. Not compared to other things.”
That was the last thing Erin said. She wiped at her blurry eyes and set aside her heart for a moment so she could play. It was a relief. It felt so good to lay everything aside and at the same time to let it all out. To let it hurt and play.
Erin’s pulse pounded in the back of her mind. The world around the chess board vanished, and the chess board grew before her eyes. Each piece consumed her vision, and she heard only theclick of moving pieces. That sound was thunder in her head.
Pawn sat in front of her, but she didn’t focus on him. He couldn’t be read. He couldn’t be outthought. There were a hundred of him thinking over every move. So Erin just played. The chess board was her world, the pieces parts of her soul.
She looked at her opponent and saw another Antinium sitting opposite her. Erin dreamt as she played. She was playing in her heart, in the core of her being, in her wishes of what might have been.
In this place, there was only the game. And Klbkch.
Erin was crying as she played. Her tears fell on the chess board and into the grass. She played and moved pieces and lost them. But it was all part of a bigger plan, one she couldn’t see, couldn’t understand. She could understand chess. That was easy. But she couldn’t understand anything else.
She took the enemy pawns. She took his rook, his knight, his bishop, and his queen. She hounded him, lured him into traps and pushed into his lines and kept her own pieces safe, or gave them away to tear his apart. She pushed and pushed, until he had nothing left.
In the silence of her dark world, Erin saw the king topple over. She blinked, and the moment was over.
Pawn bowed his head. Erin heard ringing in her ears and then snuffling. She looked over and saw Olesm was crying. The [Tactician] wiped away tears from his eyes.
“I will—I will never see—I cannot explain what it is.”
Pisces was covering his eyes, rubbing them with the heel of his hands. Rags was staring at the pieces, her eyes bloodshot as if she hadn’t blinked in an age.
“It was—that was a display beyondanything I’ve seen. It was pure! I couldn’t see how it would end! I couldn’t predict the next move! How are you not a [General] or—or a [Strategist] of the highest level?”
Erin shook her head. She looked at the chess board.
“It’s just a game. I’m no tactician or even a warrior.”
She stared at her hands.
“I’m just an [Innkeeper]. I don’t want to be anything else. I don’t even want to be that, but I am. That’s all.”
She stood up. Pawn stared at her. The Workers stared at her. She met their eyes and bowed her head. She wiped at her eyes and let her tears fall into the grass.
“I’m sorry.”
Then she left. Slowly, Erin walked inside her inn and collapsed onto the floor. She slept, mercifully, with the blackness of oblivion and no dreams.
[Innkeeper Level 11!]
[Skill – Lesser Strength obtained!]
[Skill – Immortal Moment learned.]
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T02:55:08)
leave your typos here.
Charles T J Martin (2023-03-06T05:14:03)
Maybe it’s just me, but it seems like some of these chapters reference later events a bit too much on-the-nose. Then again, I didn’t check to see which ones are the rewritten chapters, these could’ve been here the whole time.
Thetacron (2023-03-07T18:20:50)
[Skill – Immortal Moment learned.]
Shouldn’t it be: Skill – Immortal Moment created.]
Thariprsd (2023-03-09T10:00:58)
Immortal moment ?
Eric (2023-03-10T14:21:26)
If you really want to see the changes, there is a link somewhere to the originals.  You can copy paste them and the current versions into a website which shows you the differences.
You do need to make sure that the chapters you are comparing are the right ones though.  This was originally 1:27.
At least in this one, the major story changes I can tell are which Antinum remember the fallen ones and which ones they bother to remember.  I think I actually like to old version of that better, at least the line “We are the Antinium. So long as one exists, we never truly die.”
There is at least one reveal which I don’t think its that important to hide like the Titan inventing chess.
juppie (2023-03-13T11:50:45)
I spent every waking moment playing the stupid game, going to tournaments, studying, winning, losing—I never reallylived. I never played with my friends.
This is good advise, there is more than your job/hobby/.. don’t forget to live.
Jacob Manaker (2023-03-17T23:50:21)
Not quite a typo, but an inconsistency:
Krshia breathes in sharply when Erin remarks that the Immortal Game is “considered one of the pinnacle moments of chess in my world”, presumably it accidentally reveals that she’s not from Innworld. But Erin has already done so, when she stated: “We’ve got a ranking system in my world.”
Kris (2023-03-22T20:39:39)
That’s what the green text is for.
Satan (2023-05-24T13:04:51)
its greeeeennn :)))
idk why but that makes me so happy lmao
greycat (2023-07-19T20:19:27)
> Now…she glanced up, and all saw his antennae waving slowly in thought.
Remove the word “all”.
Sanguine (2023-09-23T20:48:42)
“I—see. I feel there is much misunderstood, but I respect your grief.”
I love this foreshadowing lol
Sanguine (2023-09-23T20:51:28)
I love [immortal moment]! No spoilers but every single chapter featuring that skill is an impressive work of emotive writing on Pirateaba’s part! Never fails to make me feel something ?
BIOS-Pherecydes (2023-09-29T15:35:28)
I’m not sure if it’s an error, or the characters just not paying attention to her words, but Erin outright says she’s from another world three times in this chapter.
>We’ve got a ranking system in my world
>I’m one of the best in the place where I lived. In this world—I probably am the best.
>this is still considered one of the pinnacle moments of chess in my world.
Krishia notices the third one, but that doesn’t explain the other two instances.
Toni (2023-11-27T03:19:18)
Definitely not an error. They just aren’t focused on that part of what she’s saying at all. It’s like… like, have you ever had to proofread a text before, reading it over maybe 3 or 4 times and when you’re finally done and someone else reads it, you find out that you repeated a word somewhere? Or there was a remnant word from a previous iteration of a sentence, that your mind just sort ofslipped over when doing the proofread?
they’re not thinking about “where is she from?” And therefore her saying “my world” doesn’t really register as something significant compared to all the other things she’s saying. That’s also why Krshia actually notices the third time, because she *is* wondering about that, but she’s also invested in the other things going on, so it takes three “slip-ups” for her to register it.
Koko (2023-12-01T17:35:33)
It was at this moment I realised I had DarkReader on and couldn’t see the text colours! I thought they’d just been left out!
BAV (2024-04-08T04:03:22)
It’s the same reason no one else realised either time: they’re all too caught up in what she’s telling them to realise what she’s saying. Krshia just happened to notice the second time.
lvlarcel (2024-09-19T19:25:14)
I do find it interesting how it says immortal moment learned instead of obtained
Ryan (2024-10-02T14:46:50)
Immortal Moment, eh?
Night Owl (2025-02-10T13:18:27)
This was epic. And I do feel that the chapters are somehow getting better and better at this rate we would have to pull an all nighter.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.34
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-34/

After a few days, Erin concluded that she had three types of customers. The first type were the Antinium, namely Pawn and the Workers. He brought them every day or every other day as soon as the sun touched the tops of the mountains in the southwest.
The sun rose and fell in the same direction as back home, which was either a coincidence or something interesting. Erin felt stupid for not noticing earlier, but then, she didn’t carry around a compass, did she? At least it was still east to west.
The Workers arrived like clockwork each evening, many bringing chess sets of paper or stone. Apparently, Workersdid earn some kind of pay, and they spent their money exclusively on chess and food.
Erin felt bad about that, especially given the price she charged for Acid Flies. But Pawn told her that before this, the Workers didn’t claim any of their weekly stipends. The ones who worked in the citywere allocated some money, but it had never occurred to any of them to spend it, so in that sense, Erin was helping them become consumers.
Besides, they ate like pigs. Starving pigs with a taste for crunchy flies.
Despite their obsession with her food, the Antinium were polite, quiet except when they were eating, and played chess. In other words, Erin would have been glad to have them over every night.
The second kind of guest she got were the Goblins. They were like the Workers but smellier, dirtier, and they paid her with coins covered in blood, dirt, and occasionally—
Erin had instituted a policy in her inn. Goblins had to jump in the stream or at least wash themselves before they were allowed in. Not that many visited. In truth, it was just Rags and her posse.
And itwas a posse. Or a group. Or gang. Erin was sure she was the leader of whatever they were, but while Rags was in command, it was also clear that she wasn’t in charge of her tribe, if there was still a tribe.
Occasionally, the small Goblin would come in alone, but often, she had two bigger Goblins following her. They were almost always injured—not seriously, but with small wounds that suggested scuffles and fighting. Erin wondered if the reason she didn’t see more Goblins was because they were recovering from injuries.
She wondered how many had died. Erin had slept with her windows and shutters locked and waited to see if more Goblins would—come back.
None did, and the small group that had fought for Erin had lurked around until Erin offered them food. She didn’t know how many were left of the ones who had killed Klbkch. She didn’t know ifany were left, but she waited. Selys and Krshia had offered to put her up in Liscor, but Erin was staying.
It felt like it was the only thing she could do. So her Goblin guests became that tiny group.
Nevertheless, Rags paid for her followers’ meals and her own and ate in silence. Occasionally, she played a game of chess, but Erin got the distinct impression the small Goblin was watching her.
That was fine, but Erin had grown…warier over the last few days. She always checked to make sure she knew how many Goblins were around her inn, and even when Rags was alone in her inn, Erin never left any knives or other weapons out in the open. She also made the Goblins leave whatever they were carrying outside the inn.
Still, if the Goblins were an issue that occasionally made the Workers pause and Erin count the knives in her kitchen, they were still decent customers. They paid money, which was more than Erin could say for the last type of guest: annoying necromancer.
——
“Do you know how much money you owe me for all these meals?”
Pisces looked up, mouth bulging with soup. He swallowed, grabbed a piece of bread, and munched it down before replying.
“I am, as always, reliant upon your good graces and tolerant nature, good Mistress Solstice. Rest assured, I will pay off my debts in due time as soon as I acquire the necessary funds.”
Erin planted her hands on her hips. The inn was empty except for Rags sitting in one corner, slurping down another bowl of soup.
“You keep saying that, but do you actually have any money on you?”
Pisces raised his eyebrows.
“What is money but a concept? If you are referring to the notion of money, I am indeed wealthy in—”
“Coins. Do you have them?”
The [Necromancer] hesitated and lifted one delicate finger.
“Not as such, no.”
He shrugged as Erin glared and went back to his soup. It was amazing how Pisces could manage to scarf down her food and still grimace at the same time.
“I know you study magic all day, but would it kill you to get a job? Then you couldpay for food instead of mooching it off me. And you could pay for someone to wash your robe, too!”
Pisces glanced down at his travel and food-stained robes. They were probably white, but constant use and little washing had rendered them colorfully gray and splotched.
“I fail to see your point.”
“Your clothes. Are filthy.”
He shrugged.
“Do they emit any kind of unsavory smell?”
“…No.”
“Then once again, magic has eliminated another tiresome chore. As to your point about employment, I remind you that I am banned from entering Liscor due to my magical inclinations.”
“And because you stole food and money from people by pretending to be a monster.”
Pisces rolled his eyes as if admitting one grudging good point.
“That too, I suppose. Regardless, it behooves me to stay away from the Watch. Even this far from the city, I must occasionally evade their tiresome patrols.”
“Well, you won’t have to do that much longer.”
Erin sighed and tossed her cleaning rag on the table next to Pisces. He eyed it and then her with sudden paranoia, and his eyes darted to a window.
“What do you mean?”
“Oh, they’re not going to patrol around the inn any longer. After—after Klbkch—anyways, the stupid Captain said she’s not going patrol this area. And Relc doesn’t hang out here now, so I guess you don’t have to worry about the Watch.”
Pisces repeated Erin’s words slowly. He relaxed and almost appeared cheerful—until he began to frown.
“They aren’t patrolling this region any longer?”
“That’s what I said.”
He scratched at his chin and glanced out the window. It was still morning, but Erin had closed most of the shutters. It was an unexpectedly chilly day today, and she didn’t feel like building a fire.
“That would be…problematic.”
“Oh? Why’s that?”
Pisces leaned back in his chair and fiddled with the spoon he was using. He stared at the ceiling, a sign Erin knew meant she was about to hear another lecture. Resigned, she picked up the bar rag and turned to clean another table.
Rags was sitting two tables over. Erin blinked as the Goblin quickly looked away. She hadn’t even heard the small Goblin move. Was she…listening in on Erin’s conversation with Pisces?
“The local fauna and flora of the area around Liscor are not the most deadly, considering the extreme variance of some death zones around the world, but there are several notable monster types that do pose a serious threat, even to me.”
Erin glanced over at Pisces.
“Even a great and glorious mage like you?”
“Let us just say that several of the species around here deter adventurers from pursuing their trade. Not that Drakes and Gnolls tend towards adventuring as much in any case. But without the Watch to keep local populations down, it will become hazardous quite quickly. I would suggest you hire some form of protection before this occurs.”
“What, like a bodyguard? I don’t have the money for that.”
Pisces shook his head.
“I was referring to thugs with weapons aptly known as ‘bouncers’ or the more mundane [Mercenary] classes, but you do raise a good point. I doubt many would be willing to travel this far to offer protection—and even if they did, their prices would be quite exorbitant.”
“That’s what I just said.”
“Yes, well, regardless, some form of personal defense would be highly advisable.”
“I can fight. I’ve got, uh, [Bar Fighting] as a Skill, you know. I can totally crack someone over the head with a chair.”
Pisces raised his eyebrows and applauded silently. Erin glared at him.
“Most, ah, impressive. However, I doubt your prowess with a wooden chair would deter anything but the average Goblin. Most creatures are a tad studier than that, I fear.”
This time, both Rags and Erin glared at Pisces. He ignored Erin, but he seemed less sanguine about Rags, who had moved over to the table next to his. Gingerly, as if expecting her to bite, Pisces flapped one hand at Rags, who shied away from him.
“Let me put it another way, Mistress Solstice. In words you may find easier to understand. Monsters, strong. You, weak. Regardless of your level, you have only the [Innkeeper] class, which has few Skills meant for fighting or survival.”
Pisces took another bite of bread and then reached for a cup as Erin fumed.
“I’m not completely helpless, you know.”
“I never said that you were. But fighting is far different from self-defense.”
He was right. In fact, Pisces was often right, but the problem was that he was so aggravating in being right that Erin didn’t like to admit it. She changed the subject to something she’d been waiting to bring up with him.
“By the way, I learned a new Skill after the—the game.”
Pisces paused with his tankard to his lips.
“Oh?”
“It’s called [Immortal Moment]. I have no idea what it does.”
“Hm.”
He frowned and took a deep drink, grimacing at the water in his cup.
“I have not ever heard of such a Skill in any of the directories I have read during my time as a student. Nor have I heard of such a Skill at any point in my life. Have you found out what it does?”
“Nope.”
Pisces shrugged again.
“It sounds like quite a useless Skill, to be honest.”
“That’s what I thought, too. But do you know if it has anything to do with chess? That’s probably where I learned it from.”
He thought about this as he drank.
“It is possible, although Skills that focus on one task are generally easier to understand from their name. It is more likely that this is some kind of ability you gained during the course of the game. But as to what that might be or how such a Skill could be used—”
He turned up one hand and finished his drink. Then he scowled andplonked the empty cup back on the table.
“Do you not have anyale? Or at least if you must serve drinks, would you do the courtesy of bringing out the Amentus beverage?”
Erin raised her eyebrows. Pisces pointedly glanced at his empty cup, and she more pointedly made no move to fill it.
“People who pay their tabs get blue juice. And as for alcohol—I’m underage, you idiot. I’m only 20.”
Pisces stared at her incredulously as Erin glared at him over the counter.
“Underage ofwhat, precisely?”
“The drinking age of cou—”
Erin stopped.
“…Nevermind. Okay, yeah, I could buy alcohol, but it’s expensive.”
“And customary for an inn.”
Erin thought for a second. She vaguely recalled something.
“I do have [Alcohol Brewing] as a Skill. I guess I could…make alcohol?”
Once again, Pisces’ tone was laced with sarcasm.
“Ah. I see having a Skill replaces the need for hops, barrels, the fermentation process, yeast, and of course the grain needed for such a beverage. Do show me how you make ‘alcohol,’ and let me know when you’ve decided on what type of ‘alcohol’ you would like to create. I would especially love to know if it’s a rum, beer, whiskey, mead, or if it is in fact a consumable alcohol at all.”
Erin glared at him. The odd thing was that she understood exactly what Pisces meant. The Skill in her head was telling her all kinds of crazy things, like how long she’d have to ferment thewort she’d get after adding boiling water to grain, and all the supplies she’d need. And guess what? It turned out making alcohol was a pain in the ass.
She just wished Pisces weren’t competing for that honor. Erin folded her arms as she reconsidered.
“I can make wine too. Wine is easier.”
He shook his head.
“I trust your expert opinion, of course. But may I recommend testing your drink out on the Goblins or perhaps the Antinium before serving it with your meals?”
This time, Ragspoked Pisces hard in the side. He yelped, swiped at her, and nearly fell out of his chair. He glared at Rags.
“Mistress Solstice, please keep yourguest away from me. Elsewise, I may be forced to use magic to remedy the problem myself.”
He waggled his fingers, and they emitted a few bright green sparks. Rags instantly scooted away from Pisces in alarm. Erin folded her arms and glared at him.
“You’ll do no such thing if you want to eat here again. Stop bullying the Goblin, and stop insulting them while you’re at it. Besides, she’d probably beat you in a fight.”
“I doubt that.”
Pisces muttered darkly, but he subsided back into his chair and began shoveling more soup into his mouth. Rags deliberately looked away from both Humans and pretended to be engrossed in picking at dried scabs on her side. Erin sighed. Touchy mages and inquisitive Goblins. She missed the Antinium already.
“I get that the Workers and Goblins travel in groups and run away from monsters, but how doyou survive out here by yourself?”
He shrugged sulkily.
“Any decent [Mage] has a number of spells to avoid detection. [Invisibility] is one of my fortes, for instance.”
“Oh. Right. I forgot you could do that. You know a lot of spells, huh?”
“I am quite adept in a number of magical fields. But yes, [Invisibility] is a 4th Tier spell I have acquired after much practice and study. It is useful in almost every situation.”
“Like for what? Spying on people? Hey—you haven’t ever come in here while you’re invisible, have you? Because if you have…”
Erin made a fist. Pisces raised both hands and made a face.
“Perish the thought. Ido have standards to adhere to, and besides which, you are aware that most [Mages] use the [Farsight] and [Scrying] spells to gaze with impunity on anyone they like, are you not?”
“What?”
Erin looked at him in horror. Pisces smirked a bit.
“Is it so surprising? Most upper-class dwellings and bath houses have spells to prevent such unwanted attention. But fear not—there are no Human [Mages] in the area besides myself, and I suspect any Drake [Mages], if any competent individuals in Liscor, would prefer their own species to gaze upon.”
Erin shivered.
“That is the creepiest thought I’ve ever heard of. All of you mages are perverts, I swear.”
He looked indignant at that.
“Magic is a sacred art, Miss Solstice. If a few use it to untoward ends, that is a small consequence that cannot be avoided. But to all others who pursue magic, the benefits are enormous. For instance,I do not have to worry about monster attacks even should the Watch give up patrols in this area entirely.”
“So you’re Mister Powerful, huh?”
“You saw my effectiveness against the Acid Flies, did you not?”
That made Erin pause.
“Oh. Yeah. You were pretty cool then. Um, thanks again.”
Pisces waved a hand at her and fixed his attention back on his soup quickly. Erin thought his cheeks were slightly pink. She smiled and had another thought.
“Why don’t you teach me magic, then? I’ll get rid of your tab if you do.”
The [Mage] looked up from his soup and stared at Erin.
“Teach you. Magic? Good Mistress—”
She glared.
“Erin, then. You do realize that magic is not as simple as waving a wand about and chanting words, don’t you? Becoming a [Mage] such as myself requires years—sometimes decades of intensive study.”
“I know.”
Erin didn’t actually know that, but it made sense. But now that the idea had hit her, she was suddenly caught up by it. Magic. It seemed so strange and incomprehensible and yet—
“But, uh, can’t you teach me a bit of magic? I’d love to learn. I think mages are cool. I was a big fan of Harry Potter growing up, although Draco was sort of cute too—”
Pisces glanced at Rags and got a blank look in return.
“…Who?”
Erin blushed.
“Never mind. Forget that. But will you teach me something? It doesn’t even have to be a lot. I just want to learn about magic.”
Rags looked up and stopped picking at her scabs. Erin sensed the Goblin scooting closer from chair to chair as Pisces considered her offer.
“And you would forget my tab?”
“I’ll forget your taband I’ll start buying alcohol.”
That seemed to swing the scales. Pisces nodded. He sat back ponderously in his chair and intoned in his important-sounding voice.
“Very well then. Let us begin with the Mage’s Test. Observe.”
Pisces raised a finger, which began to glow with blue-white light. He began to trace something in the air. Where his finger moved, the light from it seemed to leave an ethereal residue. Erin squinted at it, fascinated.
“This is the basic test for determining aptitude. I am drawing—”
The gentle glow of blue magic was half-complete in the air when something interrupted Pisces’ lecture. A flash of light bloomed right in front of his nose. Pisces yelped, overbalanced in his chair, and crashed to the ground.
Erin backed up. Pisces flailed around on the ground as Rags dove out of her chair and underneath a table.
“What was that? Get it off!”
Something was hovering in the air in front of Pisces. He batted at it frantically and then paused as he saw what it was. Slowly, he sat up, and Erin saw something floating around his head. It looked…like a firefly? A firefly made of red and gold—no, more like a spectrum of those colors flickering together and winking out in front of the [Mage]’s face. It was beautiful and mysterious.
“Whatis that?”
Pisces stood up. He slowly reached out, and the firefly became motes of light that danced around his hand. He stared at them.
“It’s a messaging spell, but I haven’t seen one like that since—”
He broke off, frowning. The pinpoints of light began to coalesce into strange, flickering shapes. Erin squinted at them, but they didn’t look like letters. Or…were they words? She couldn’t describe it—no, she couldn’t evenunderstand it.
Each fleck of light twisted and became hovering runes or symbols, but they also made Erin think they were words. But could you make a single letter or shape into an entire concept? And they…theyhurt to look at. Erin’s eyes ached trying to take the strange, magical shapes in.
It was as if they didn’t exist in normal, three-dimensional space. And the more Erin looked at them, the more she developed a painful headache and stinging behind her eyes. She had to glance away.
Rags was desperately trying to stare at the magical message, but she seemed to be in as much pain as Erin, clutching at her head and prying her eyes open with her dirty fingers.
Only Pisces seemed to be able to look at the shapes without any pain. He frowned and stood up. For a moment, his face was thunderous as he stared at the flickering spell, and Erin was disconcerted by the raw anger in his expression. Then it became melancholic almost as fast. He reached out as if to quash the little spell, then let it rest upon his fingertips. He murmured half to himself, then blinked and glanced at Erin.
“Why would—no. Wait. I must read this. I, ah, will be going now. Thank you for the meal.”
“No—problem.”
Erin shaded her eyes and watched as the dusty robes and sandaled feet made their way to her door. They paused, and she heard Pisces’ voice again.
“—Regardless of your feelings, you should still hire some sort of protection. The more aggressive types of monsters and wildlife will soon return to this area.”
Erin looked up and blinked as one of the shapes pulsed a message she couldn’t understand into her brain. She covered her eyes. When she dared remove her hand, Pisces was gone.
——
Bodyguards. Hired help. Bouncers. Security. People with pointy sticks. They ranged from people who were good in a brawl to retired or active adventurers willing to take easier jobs in exchange for pay.
They were expensive, but it beat being stabbed repeatedly or eaten by a monster. That was Pisces’ opinion. Erin heard pretty much the same thing when she saw Selys next.
The two young women were walking through the marketplace in Liscor, shopping. Erin was accompanying Selys, having placed her orders with Krshia already.
It was very strange. In some ways, Selys was just like any girl around Erin’s age. The female Drake looked at the latest fashions, checked out jewelry, bought food and supplies for the week, and chattered happily with the shopkeepers like any young woman living on her own.
If Erin closed her eyes, she could imagine she was back in her world. But when she looked at Selys, it was hard to ignore the scales. And the tail. And the conversation.
“Look Erin, I know you want to stay in your inn, but it’s notsafe. At least hire one of the low-level adventurers. They’re not that strong, but I could get you a good deal. Maybe we could call it a perpetual extermination request. Then the Guild would pay some of the costs.”
Erin shook her head as they walked down the street.
“I don’t see why I need protection, Selys. I haven’t seen any monsters lately, not even the Rock Crabs. The only things I see are those weird dino-birds in the sky and Rags and the Goblins.”
“Those are bad enough. But you haven’t seen the really bad monsters because the Watch keeps them away! Look Erin, I don’t want to hear you’ve been eaten or munched up into little bits one day.”
“Lovely image.”
“Thanks. But the Watch is here for our protection. If they’re not guarding you—”
Selys broke off, frowning. She and Erin stopped their progress down the street. There was a crowd ahead of them, mainly Drakes with a few Gnolls mixed in.
“What’s that all about?”
Someone was shouting. No, someones were shouting. Erin stood up on her tiptoes but couldn’t see past the bodies in front of her. Then all of a sudden the crowd opened up, and several Drakes thrust their way through.
“Out of the way!”
Erin jumped aside and stared as a group of four armed Drakes pushed their way out of the crowd. These weren’t guardsmen, but they definitely weren’t civilians either.
“Adventurers.”
Selys whispered it to Erin as she drew her against one side of the street. Indeed, all of the pedestrians were giving the Drake adventurers a wide berth.
The Drakes shouted angrily back into the crowd behind them and stormed down the street. Erin watched them go. Then out of the crowd came a familiar figure.
Relc pushed aside the crowd and emerged from the press of bodies, tail lashing angrily. He turned, reached back into the scrum, and pulled out a smaller, dazed-looking Drake guardsman.
“Stop!”
He shouted at the backs of the Drake adventurers, but they ignored him. Fuming, Relc went to chase after them, but the other [Guardsman] grabbed him. Relc and the Drake began arguing furiously.
Selys looked from Relc to the adventurers anxiously.
“They must have gotten into a fight with the Watch. There will be trouble over this.”
Erin looked at Relc uncertainly. His tail was furiously lashing the ground as he argued with the other guardsman.
“Is he going to arrest them?”
“I hope not. Adventurers and the Watch don’t get along. If he does, there will be trouble. Well, there’s already going to be trouble at the Guild, but an arrest would really make things worse.”
Selys watched anxiously as Relc seemed to get angrier and angrier, despite the other guardsman clearly trying to calm him down. He tore himself away and began marching down the street after the adventurers, who had already disappeared from view. Coincidentally, his path took him right in front of Selys and Erin.
The Drake froze up when he saw Erin. She hesitated, not certain what she should say, if anything. Before she could make up her mind, Relc whirled around and marched in the opposite direction, dragging the hapless Guardsman along in his wake. He didn’t look back once.
Selys breathed out softly.
“Well, that was lucky. It’s a good thing he decided not to do anything. I’d hate to see a fight break out in the market, especially since we’re not done shopping. Good thing seeing you calmed him down, right, Erin? Erin…?”
She looked over at Erin’s face. The Human was wiping at her eyes. Selys’ eyes widened, and her tail began to twitch.
“Oh. Um. Sorry. I didn’t mean—let’s—let’s go.”
Gently, she took Erin by the arm and led her away. The crowd stared at the Human curiously, but lost interest now that the adventurers and Relc were both gone. Only a few Gnolls stared after Erin’s back but quickly looked away when a certain Gnoll shopkeeper stepped out of her shop and glared at them.
——
“Here. Have a cup of this.”
Selys handed Erin a steaming cup of something bittersweet. Erin sipped at it gratefully and tasted what she imagined was a root-vegetable. Well, it wasn’t bad, and it was warm.
“Sorry about that.”
“…It’s fine. I just—I guess Relc wasn’t expecting to see me. He looked angry.”
“Well, yes.”
Selys bustled around her small home, fetching another cup of root-tea for herself as she made Erin at home. The room she’d brought Erin into reminded Erin of a normal apartment, except it was quite open and spacious. The chair she was sitting on was also sized differently so that the legs were higher off the ground than normal.
At last, the female Drake took a seat next to Erin.
“I guess it was another incident with the adventurers. I didn’t recognize them from the Guild, so they must be from further south. And the ones we’ve been getting lately, well, they don’t like to obey the laws as much, so we’ve been getting a lot of complaints at the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“Mm.”
Erin had almost forgotten Selys was a receptionist at the Guild.
“They were all Drakes. Aren’t there Gnoll adventurers too?”
“Oh, a few. But that was probably an all-Drake team. Gnolls—well, Gnolls don’t like working with other species as much. And not as many become adventurers, so we haven’t been getting as many.”
“What about Humans? Aren’t any of them adventurers?”
“Lots. Most, in fact. But this group is from down south. Past the Bloodfields. They must have risked the journey—it’s not too dangerous if you go wide around it—in hopes of finding worth in the north. Rare, but it happens. But they’re from the south.”
“…Right?”
Erin frowned at Selys. Selys frowned back.
“They’re from down south, so they’re all Drakes or Gnolls.”
“Right, right. Because all Drakes live in the south…?”
Selys paused.
“…Erin. Do you not know the local geography?”
“Um, no.”
Erin fidgeted in her seat. Selys sighed, but smiled.
“You really need to pay more attention. Wait here for a second.”
She put down her cup and bustled about her home, rummaging around in drawers. Erin sipped at her tea until Selys came back with a piece of paper.
“Do you know anything about this continent?”
“I know we’re on a continent. How’s that?”
Selys jabbed Erin playfully with one claw. Erin yelped and nearly knocked over her tea.
“Sorry, sorry! I forgot how soft you Humans are! Sorry!”
“It’s okay.”
Embarrassed, Selys picked up a quill and unscrewed an inkpot.
“Here, let me show you. The name of the continent we’re living on is Issrysil, according to my people—but no one says that. Everyone calls it Izril. It looks…like this.”
Selys drew on the piece of paper and outlined a body of land that looked vaguely like a triangle up top, but narrowed near the center and became vaguely shoe-shaped near the bottom. It was fairly ovoid in total, though, or maybe that was just the result of Selys’ drawing skills.
“Okay, this is roughly where all you Humans live. See? The entire northern part of the continent except where the mountains start. From here…to…here.”
Erin peered at the giant squiggly oval Selys drew around the northern section of the continent. Then she added small triangles for mountains two-thirds up the map, a long line of them stretching across the continent, nearly cutting the top third off from the bottom.
“And here’s Liscor. See, we’re the only way through the High Passes.Technically, there’s a route through the mountain range over here…but it’s infested with monsters. And of course the coastal routes to the east and west.”
Selys drew arrows through two sections of the mountain range and circled the small dot where Liscor was. That was roughly in the center of the map, where the continent was narrowest. Erin wasn’t good at geography—or topography—or whatever maps were, but it looked like Liscor was in a valley of some sorts.
“See, that’s why Liscor is so important. Without us, any goods have to go by land or sea all the way around the continent or brave the High Passes. And that’s not a good idea.”
“These High Passes aren’t safe?”
“Not even for high-level adventurers. Nasty creatures live around there—they make the local monsters look harmless by comparison.”
“Oh. But if all the Humans live in the north, what about the south? Are they all…Gnolls and Drakes?”
“And Antinium, but only in the Hivelands. Right along the northwestern coast below the High Passes, see? There are other species, but there are only three—four, I guess—in Izril.”
Selys shook her head as she began marking the bottom half of the map. She pointed out a small area in the lower half of Izril along the mountains and coastal range. A corner of the south.
“Here are the five known Antinium colonies outside of Liscor. Past this point is their territory. The Hivelands.”
She shivered.
“New. No one goes there, so we don’t know what it’s like, but I’ve heard it’s barren, and obviously, no armies or anyone else cross the border or get near the Antinium. It’s a death sentence.”
Why? Erin was about to point out Liscor had tons of Antinium…then she thought of the Soldiers and the Queen. And hadn’t Relc said Liscor was different? Klbkch….she swallowed a lump in her throat and changed the subject.
“Bad news. Got it. Didn’t I hear Liscor’s got an army? Relc…Relc said that. Is there lots of war?”
Selys rolled her eyes.
“There’s always some fight between the Drake cities. Or with a Gnoll tribe. We’re notBaleros, but—right. You don’t know Liscor has an army. They don’t come home often. They’re mercenaries, technically. Always being hired by one of the cities or alliances that pop up. And there are a lot of them.”
Selys began to furiously mark the lower half of the map with cities and circles.
“Okay, it gets a bit complex, but the big groups are the Walled Cities over here, the Gnoll Tribes of the plains, and the independent ports and cities in this area. Most of the inhabitants are Drakes, it’s true, but there are other species. For instance, nearly a third of the population down there are Gnolls. We have a few hundred Humans here and there…sometimes String-People or even Centaurs, Selphids, or other folk, but they’re just individuals rather than a community. Mostly in the Walled Cities.”
Some of the races Selys mentioned made no sense to Erin. What was a String Person? Or a Selphid? Or…
“What about Beastkin? I keep hearing that they live around here, but I’ve never seen one. Unless they look exactly like Gnolls. Where do they live?”
“Not really anywhere. I guess you might find more of them among the Gnoll Tribes—but they don’t belong there either. They come from another continent further to the west, Baleros, but they’re peaceful and easy to work with. We’ve got one total in all of Liscor. Hawk the Hare, our Courier.”
There was so much to ask about that Erin had to drop that fascinating line of questioning. She focused on species, first.
“Uh, are there other kinds of people like you? What about Lizardfolk?”
Selys scowled.
“No lizards. We wouldn’t tolerate their kind in cities anyways.”
Erin stared at the map. Selys finished marking it and smiled at Erin.
“Well, does that make sense?”
“Yeah, I think so. You explained it all well, but the map is making my eyes hurt.”
“Hey! What’s wrong with my map?”
Selys glanced down at the confusing jumble of squiggly lines and dots on the piece of paper.
“…Oh.”
Erin tried to keep a straight face, but couldn’t hold it in. She laughed, and after a moment, Selys laughed with her. That was a bit of happiness.
When they were done, Selys pointed to one of the dots near Liscor.
“Most of the new adventurers are coming from Pallass but it’s taking a while given how far they’re coming. I bet we’ll get a lot more and probably even some Human ones, but not for a few more days at least. Anyways, the reason all the adventurers are here is because of those new ruins. Didn’t you hear about them? Apparently, it’s some kind of underground complex—a huge one! They uncovered it a few days ago. Some [Shepherd] was walking with a herd and saw an opening in the hillside. It might be adungeon.”
Erin remembered hearing about ruins, but it seemed like a distant memory.
“Oh yeah. That’s a big deal, isn’t it?”
Selys nodded seriously.
“It’s huge. We’re getting a huge amount of merchants, adventurers, and business because of it. But of course that means more trouble when they get into fights with the Antinium or break the law. I hear the Watch is working overtime, and now that Klbkch is—”
She cut herself off and tried to backpedal.
“Um, what I mean is that without—without enough guardsmen—”
“I get it.”
Erin patted Selys on the shoulder.
“So, there’s going to be a lot of adventurers? I might finally get some business in my inn.”
“Only if you can protect it. Like I was saying, Erin—”
“I need protection. Got it.”
Erin sighed.
“It’s so weird. I guess I just got used to the inn and the local area, y’know? I haven’t seen any monsters, so I just can’t get worried.”
“Well, youare in a place that used to have quite a few villages.”
Selys conceded as she marked a few X’s around Liscor.
“They all got abandoned or destroyed over time, especially after the Necromancer.”
“Pisces?”
The Drake looked incredulous.
“Who? No, not that Human. TheNecromancer. From Terandria? The end of Silvaria? Az’kerash? Come on, Erin. Practically every Human north of us knows about him. He was from a while back and—well, we lost a lot of the area around Liscor. He destroyed entire Terandrian nations, but here, at Liscor, he met his end. The Antinium and Zel Shivertail brought him down, and that’s how the Free Hive was allowed into the city.” 
She looked so proud about that, possibly because this Zel guy had Selys’ last name. The Drake went on, and her smile faded.
“A lot of people died in his undead attacks and the Second Antinium War, hence all the abandoned places. The place you’re in is pretty safe. But if you go a few miles in any direction, you can find a lot of strange stuff.”
Erin was intrigued. She studied the second map Selys was drawing.
“Really? I guess I’ve never…huh. You know, I’ve never really gone exploring. I mean, aside from finding the inn and a few other spots, I didn’t really go anywhere else. I started repairing the inn and…yeah, I didn’t ever really go any further.”
Selys shook her head.
“Good thing you didn’t. Some of those places are pretty dangerous. I mean, not now, obviously, since it’s not the right season and the Watch was keeping them clear, but I’ve heard stories.”
“Like what?”
“Oh, you know the adventurers. They always talk about treasure and finding magical artifacts in caves and so on. But the ones around here are always poor, so I wouldn’t pay attention if I were you. Most slither on back to the city before they get much further than your inn, anyways. They’re all low-level, which is why none of them have dared enter the ruins yet. They’re waiting for the stronger adventurers to clear the way before they flood in.”
“So what you’re saying is that there’s a lot of unexplored land out there?”
“If you stray from the roads, I guess. But who’d risk exploring out there?”
Selys paused, realized what she’d said, and stared suspiciously at her friend. Erin kept a perfectly straight face.
“Erin…”
“What?”
“No! It’s too dangerous! Don’t be stupid!”
“I just want to see what’s around the inn. I won’t go far. And I’ll run away if I see anything.”
“No. I won’t let you go alone.”
“Oh come on. I’ll be careful. I’ll only walk a few miles in every direction, okay? But I really don’t know what’s around the inn. I just want to explore a little.”
“Erin—”
“I’ll be fine, I promise, Selys. What’s the worst that could happen?”
Knock. Knock. Erin rapped her knuckles against the table.
“You’re going to get yourself hurt! Or killed!”
“There’s nothing out there that can hur—catch me.”
Knock. Knock.
“We were just talking about you needing someone to protect you! Without Relc and Klbkch—Erin, remember the Goblins? And there are far worse things out there! Believe me, I work with adventurers. I know.”
“Nothing’s going to bother going after a lone Human in an inn in the middle of nowhere, I’m sure.”
Knock. Knock.
“Why do you keep ondoing that?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T03:11:56)
Knock. Knock.
Leave a typo.
Knock. Knock.
Michael Lampi (2023-03-07T04:38:29)
Most creatures are a tad studier than that, I fear.”
==> Most creatures are a tad sturdier than that, I fear.”
Enkisdom (2023-03-10T04:01:41)
“. . . in hopes of finding worth in the north.” I suspect “worth” should be “work.”
Hiram (2023-03-14T20:07:57)
Selys says ”…You don’t know Liscor has an army”. Should it be ”…You know Liscor has an army”?
Grault (2023-03-17T03:32:49)
“New [Now]. No one goes there,
Fkg (2023-03-20T01:36:46)
>magic is a sacred art
Another inconsistency?
Kris (2023-03-24T15:35:53)
Given the context around it…
“There’s always some fight between the Drake cities. Or with a Gnoll tribe. We’re not Baleros, but—right. You don’t know Liscor has an army. They don’t come home often.
I’d say the way it’s written makes sense. She’s thinking out loud as she explains things.
Kris (2023-03-24T15:37:15)
Nah. The word Sacred can have usage outside of religion. Besides, “Dead Gods” is a common enough phrase.
Kris (2023-03-24T15:38:26)
Nice catch. Sturdier, not studier.
Borigi (2023-04-01T09:54:35)
Most creatures are a tad studier than that, I fear.” probably should be sturdier unless the floodplains has some nerdy monster problem. Altough there is rags
Borigi (2023-04-01T09:55:15)
Most creatures are a tad studier than that, I fear.” should be sturdier
Mayank (2023-04-04T11:55:25)
“the stupid Captain said she’s not going patrol this area.” – Going to patrol
Salamander (2023-08-11T20:41:38)
Pisces is slowly becoming my favorite character to read. Seems like a blast to write as well.
marine (2023-10-24T20:05:16)
he just seems like your average “smart guy” character. His entire purpose so far has been to demonstrate and explain how magic works. I bet he’s the necromancer Ceria mentioned and we’ll all have a “I guess necromancy really isn’t that bad” moment
Setern (2023-11-06T23:15:08)
I feel like his character has already shown more depth and plot relevancy than all that.
yagoldt (2024-01-11T20:56:07)
She gets fucked up by goblins 3 times and almost dies to the rock crab twice and the weird bird once, got her place thrashed twice and got a friend killed.
But sure you go girl, do dumb shit as
always. What’s the worst that could ever happen?
Can't believe (2024-02-12T05:50:35)
Huh! I know it! good job buddy I know you never disappoint me
Jul (2024-03-01T20:49:21)
It really is frustrating me that even though klb died and she keeps on crying about that she still has the gall to say dumb stuff like that. Like seriously ? You’ve almost been killed by a couple of goblins but you think you can take on scarier monsters ?
Nicnom (2024-03-17T11:03:07)
So . . . Erin’s a bit motivated to not have other people protecting her, and it’s coming across as a death wish; and she knows this, hence all the knocking on wood.
Loving it.
Yes, as I’m commenting I’m aware how popular this story is. Still worth hearing nice words on!
amoki (2024-03-19T15:43:23)
Klb just died and she is still stubbornly putting herself in danger..
Joe Blowski (2024-04-29T03:05:31)
“Studlier” might work too. ;)
Lucas (2024-07-14T16:19:10)
Knocking on wood every time she says something bad won’t happen is peak haha ?
Bookwyrm (2024-08-02T05:13:13)
“Right along the northwestern coast below the High Passes, see?”
-> “Right along the southwestern coast below the High Passes, see?”
Mr anderson (2024-09-04T22:10:01)
Why is it every time gnolls aren’t depicted as monsters they’re the most lovable race, then again I guess it’s more reflective on the authors that chose to include gnolls in their books
Konrahd_Verdammt (2024-10-17T20:58:40)
What other stories have Gnolls not depicted as monsters? I only know of this and Guilded Age.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-12T10:41:24)
Selsys is one good friend and the Gnoll lady as well.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-12T10:53:19)
Erin really should talk to Relc at some point, coz both have lost their friend and are going through grief but well can’t blame either of them for avoiding the other with how things happened .
Ainsley (2025-01-27T08:59:48)
My niece DID say I’d be highly annoyed. She was right. I don’t know who annoys me more, Erin, or Ryoka. I want to shake them both until their teeth click and rattle for different reasons, but I still want to do it. In 50 years of reading, I have NEVER been this intrigued AND aggravated at the same time! I’ve got to make sure I don’t skip my blood pressure meds while I’m reading this!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.36
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-36/

When they removed the bandage from Ryoka’s leg, the other adventurers flinched back. All except for Ceria and Calruz, that was.
Ryoka stared down into the bloody, ripped mess of skin and once again was profoundly grateful for the numbing magic they’d put on her leg. Gerial looked pale as he gathered up the bandages. They were soaked with blood and grime, but they were still valuable.
“The flesh—”
“It’s fine.”
Ceria reassured the others. She fished out a red potion and uncorked the bottle.
“That’s what happens when you move bone around. But now the leg can be healed properly since the bone is repaired. Let’s heal—”
“Hold it.”
Calruz caught her arm, and for a second, Ryoka wondered if this was revenge for getting punched. She wasn’t intoo much pain compared to before.
She could actually tell her bone was intact, not, you know,shredding her flesh with every passing moment. But the distinction was crippling delirium compared to an open, shredded leg—
“Give me the potion. What’s the hold up? Come on—”
Ryoka hissed through gritted teeth, but Calruz was eying the bloody, messy wound. Surprisingly, not much pus or other nasty fluids; the [Healer] had cleaned it and put on what they claimed would stop an infection.
“We must clean the wound first. A healing potion can accelerate an infection—”
“Dead gods, he’s right.”
Ceria lowered her arm and cursed, and Gerial bit his lip.
“That would not be…a good outcome.”
Ryoka looked from face to face.
“Infection? What? Healing potions accelerate infections?”
“That’s one of the reasons why adventurers can’t heal everything. That and poison stops healing from working properly. Hey, Pisces—Pisces!”
The [Necromancer] turned from counting his gold coins a ways off.
“What?”
“Does this building have anyone in it? Can we get some hot water? Or just water? We could boil our canteen water I guess.”
“We have cooking supplies. Calruz has them in his bag of holding.”
“I could inquire within, but the owner is out.”
“Who runs an inn with just one person? Nevermind. Uh—thanks.”
The half-Elf was awkward with the [Necromancer]. He sniffed and glanced at Ryoka archly. Ceria’s past with him, whatever it was, made the two stiff and grudgingly respectful. At best.
“The Minotaur is correct, Springwalker. Clean the wound. Too bad you never took that alchemy class, eh?”
He smiled—and Ceria’s face froze up. Her eyes flashed.
“Go to Rhir, Pisces.”
His smile disappeared instantly. Ryokathought he’d meant it as a joke or…whatever the case, the [Necromancer] reddened and stepped back. He whirled away as the Horns fell silent—then stopped.
“Vinegar. Or soap. Hot soap and water.”
“What?”
Calruz looked up, and Ryoka, biting her lip hard, glanced up. Pisces sneered at them.
“Wash the wound. I know soap is not what you put on a wound—it doesn’t matter if you’ll heal it. Wash any grit straight out. Do hurry, though. The longer the wound is exposed, the sooner it will fester.”
He was right. Ryoka’s own germ knowledge made her clench her teeth—and the Minotaur already had a kettle going over a magical flame that the [Mage] Sostrom was producing with his staff.
“We’ll have to dump it over the wound. Ryoka Griffin, do you need something to clench with your teeth?”
“Do it. I’ll be fine. This—this is payback, isn’t it?”
“I assure you, it’s merely practicality.”
They had the kettle boiling quickly with the magical fire. Gerial gave Ryoka an arm to grip, but she clenched one hand.
“I’ll be fine. Just pour it on—fast.”
“Don’t burn her leg off. Just get that slime—grab my arm, Ryoka.”
Geria was remonstrating with Calruz. The Runner refused to.
“I’mfine.”
“Sure?”
“Yes—argh! Fuck you! I’ll kill you! You motherf—”
Ryoka’s screaming made Pisces glance back, even as he walked off across the Floodplains hills. Ryoka doubled over as the adventurers held her still, and Calruz spoke.
“Ceria—now.”
Carefully, the half-Elf poured the healing potion over Ryoka’s leg. It was a stronger, more expensive potion, so the effects began instantly once the liquid hit her flesh.
The scaldingagony faded, and Ryoka let go of Gerial’s shoulder. She watched with nauseous interest as the flesh and sinew began to re-knit, shifting around like a bunch of worms. At this point, most of the Horns of Hammerad had to look away, but she kept watching. It was her body after all.
After about a minute, the top layer of skin began to close. Ryoka saw her flesh flow together to become smooth and whole. It was the most satisfying sight she’d ever seen.
Ceria tapped the bottle for the last drops of healing potion to fall out and then tucked it away in her belt.
“Looks good. I’m going to dispel the magic now. Ryoka, how does it feel?”
Ryoka shrugged. She was red-faced, mostly because of her reaction. She glanced at Gerial.
“S-sorry.”
“No problem.”
He winced; she must have really grabbed his shoulder. Ryoka turned back to Ceria.
“I can’t feel anything. But it looks good. Go ahead.”
Ceria nodded and grabbed the wand at her belt. She murmured a few words, and Ryoka listened for magical tongues, some deep magic—but all she heard was a disappointing normal voice.
“[Dispel Magic]. Alright, I’m ready to put the spell back. Ryoka? How’s it feel?”
All of the adventurers crowded close, alternating between staring at Ryoka’s face and her leg.
For a few seconds, Ryoka’s face was blank. Then, slowly, she stood up. She rested her full weight on both legs and then on her bad leg. She took one step and then two. Then—
She smiled.
“How’s it feel—”
Calruz nudged Gerial and cut the other man off. He watched as Ryoka took another step and then stretched her leg out. She gingerly tested her leg by taking a few forceful steps. Then she hopped up and down.
Ryoka spun on one leg. Then she jumped and kicked out with it before landing and doing a pivot-kick that cut the air. The adventurers blinked, impressed.
Hop, spin, kick, jump. Ryoka leapt about the grass like a monkey, or a martial artist if you wanted to be flattering. She did a cartwheel and then a spinning back kick. At this point, Gerial and the other adventurers were gaping openly, and that was before Ryoka started doing back handsprings and front flips.
“I take it you’re feeling better, Ryoka?”
The young woman stopped and grinned at Ceria. She flicked some sweat off her forehead.
“I’m great. Better than great.”
This time, Calruz was the one who was lost for words. Gerial had plenty, though. He stared openly at Ryoka.
“How did—I’ve never seen anyone dothat.”
The other adventurers nodded in agreement, but one of the mages shook his head.
“I have. Tumblers and performers have those kinds of Skills. Do you have the [Performer] class, Miss Ryoka?”
She looked at him, mildly insulted.
“No, I’ve just gotskill. You should see me do parkour or tricking.”
“Par—what?”
“It’s a type of running. Or—I guess you could call it a type of martial arts.”
Again, Ryoka had lost her audience.
“Marital what?”
“I’ve heard of that.”
Ceria nodded and smiled at Ryoka.
“Youare full of surprises, aren’t you? And your leg doesn’t hurt? You don’t feel any twinges or pain?”
Ryoka smiled.
“None.”
“Pisces did his work well, then. I thought he would. He might be an idiot, but he’s a competent one.”
Gerial cleared his throat.
“I’m glad. Well, uh, what should we do now? It’s been a long trip, and there’s the inn or Liscor…Ryoka, did you want to, uh, do anything?”
The Horns of Hammerad stared at Ryoka. She was practically vibrating with energy, unable to sit still.
“I’m going to run back.”
“What?”
“I’ve gotta run. Sorry but—”
Gerial and the other Horns of Hammerad exchanged glances. The male [Warrior] nodded and grinned at her.
“We understand. I’ve broken bones before, too.”
Ryoka nodded. She was already looking at the wide, open plains. But then she looked back and hesitated.
“I don’t want to get in your way. I can probably find my way back on my own if you want to stay—”
“Nonsense.”
This time, it was Calruz who interrupted. The Minotaur snorted.
“We’ll follow in the wagon and pick you up when you slow down. There’s over a hundred miles between here and Celum. Even I—you couldn’t run that far.”
She gave him a grin. Even now, with the best intentions in the world—his comment made something flare up in her chest. She put her hands on her hips.
“Wanna bet?”
He blinked at her, and Ryoka hesitated.Wait, wait, don’t—she tried again.
“Um, thanks anyways, though. But if you need to rest—I know you were up all night.”
“We’ll give the horses a stamina potion, don’t worry.”
“Ponies!”
The [Driver] was still waiting by the wagon. The half-Elf rolled her eyes and smiled at Ryoka.
“If you’re going to run, stick to the road. Monsters around here are fairly dangerous. Stay away from the big rocks. They’re actually giant monsters in disguise.”
All of the other Horns of Hammerad eyed Ceria askance. But Ryoka just nodded. Her entire body was coiled like a spring. But again, she paused before running.
“Thank you. I really mean it.”
Calruz snorted.
“Enough words. Run already!”
Ryoka nodded at the adventurers. She gave them a rare, full smile, and at least a few hearts in the Horns of Hammerad skipped a beat. Then she took off.
Calruz must have had the idea to run with Ryoka, at least for a while, because he took off with her. He got ten steps before she’d left him completely behind. Ceria whistled softly as she saw Ryoka blaze through the grasslands.
“Let’s see if our [Wagon Driver] wants a break and get on the road if you want to follow her, Gerial. It looks like she’ll go at least forty miles before she runs out of steam.”
Gerial nodded and began ordering the Horns around, although they already knew what to do. Calruz stomped back, looking half-pleased, half-disgruntled.
“Fast. But that’s why she is worthy.”
Ceria eyed him while Gerial deliberately began fiddling with a blue potion he’d pulled from his pack.
“It’s worth repaying our debt to her, but it’s too bad we can’t stay in Liscor, Calruz. You know those new ruins are nearby. It might be worth getting the drop on the other adventuring teams and exploring it first.”
He shook his head.
“Not without a full-fighting party. There’s a reason none of the cowards around here have dared breach the upper levels yet. If we come back, it will be after we know what monsters have been sighted there and our wounded have recovered.”
“Practical, I suppose. I’m just surprised to hear that coming from you, Calruz.”
Calruz eyed Ceria irritably.
“Why? Because I am a Minotaur?”
Her gaze didn’t waver.
“No, because you’reyou.”
He snorted and grinned. The Minotaur was one of the Beriad, whatever that meant, and he sometimes showed his talents. Such as now as he eyed Liscor in the distance.
“I’m no fool, and the Horns of Hammerad aren’t Gold-ranked. Notyet. A proper strike force will take setting up. Let alone the provisioning. We will wait. Now, let us follow the quick Ryoka Griffin.”
The female [Mage] groaned as she climbed into the wagon.
“Another day and night of riding. Too bad we couldn’t stay at the inn.”
Calruz eyed the currently empty inn and shook his head.
“Bah, it doesn’t look that inviting anyways. It’s got holes in the roof, and if the [Necromancer]’s a customer, I shudder to think what the rest of the guests are like. Let’s go!”
The Horns of Hammerad set out, travelling down the central slope and for several miles until they found the main road. They kept going for an hour before Gerial raised his head and sniffed from the driver’s seat.
“…Does anyone smell smoke?”
——
Ryoka ran. She ran through the grass and kicked off the ground. With every step, she felt like she was being reborn. And she was running fast, perhaps faster than she’d ever run before. Her wings were back.
She crested a hill, stormed down it in half a second, and then hit the flat ground before another crest made her dig into the soft grass. The bumpy landscape of the area was perfect for muscle training, if she’d been so inclined. But as it was, Ryoka was just enjoying the feeling of running again.
She kept to the main road. Even with all the passion in her soul, Ryoka wasn’t about to risk running into whatever monsters Ceria had mentioned. She eyed the large, immobile rocks as she ran and wondered what was living underneath them.
At this time of day, the road was actually crowded with a few travellers. Ryoka either hadn’t seen them in her delirious ride to Liscor, or it had been too late at night/early in the morning. But now she saw merchants riding in armed caravans, farmers sitting on wagons, and even the lone traveller. Some were Human. Most were not.
Giant lizards. Hairy dog-people. Ryoka would have stopped and stared—or discreetly observed them—but the fire of running was burning her from the inside out. She ran at a good distance from the road as she flashed by the travellers. In turn, they stared at the Human running by them with undisguised curiosity and amazement.
Merchants, traders, travellers, peddlers, caravan guards, farmers, and the occasional group of adventurers all travelled the road to Liscor. Oh, and one more group.
[Guards].
Ryoka blitzed by a party of Gnolls, who sniffed and turned their heads almost too late to see her go by when she saw the group of armed Drakes. They reacted to her presence by reaching for their weapons, but when they saw it was just a lone Human, they relaxed. All except for one, that was.
Her legs and body were still fine, but Ryoka was thinking of slowing down to conserve energy when she saw the blur move out of the group of guards and chase after her. She heard the whoops and cheers of the Drakes and realized one of them was trying to race her. Ryoka looked over her shoulder.
A green blur was charging after her. It was one of the guardsmen, a big Drake with a spear on his back. Another one of the bonehead types who thought they could outrun her just to show off to their friends. She increased her pace. And…so did he.
He wasfast. Ryoka sensed him behind her, and then he was right next to her. She gaped as he appeared by her side, giving her a smug grin. He was huge, and he was carrying a weapon and wearing armor, but he still was nearly as fast as she was. Nearly.
Her feet dug into the soft grass. Ryoka increased the tempo of her legs and went into overdrive. The Drake blinked as sheaccelerated. He tried to speed up, and for a few seconds, he managed to keep pace. But Ryoka had wings on her feet, and this was her first run in nearly a week. He might as well have tried to catch the wind.
“Hey! Wait! No fair! Let me take off my armor! And my boots!”
He began to shout, panting, and she laughed at him without slowing down.
How fast was she going? Ryoka saw the travellers on the road blur and then disappear with each step. She was in a completely different world of her own now, and even the insanely fast Drake couldn’t keep up. This was her world, a world few people would ever know.
For a second, Ryoka wished her iPhone were working so she could listen to some music or record herself running for one of the compilation videos on Youtube. But then she left those thoughts behind. She ran.
The guardsman fell behind. No matter how hard he tried, he couldn’t keep up with her. Ryoka turned her head and flashed him a smile for a good race. He desperately pumped his arms and his legs, but his weird speed was no match for her. And his posture wasterrible.
Wait.Was he wearing armor? And carrying a spear?
She heard him call out after her, but Ryoka had hit the zone, and she couldn’t be stopped. She ran on and smiled into the breeze. The feeling was back. She was back.
She was free.
——
Relc gave up running when the female Human was over a hundred feet ahead of him. Disgusted, he ground to a stop, tearing up the grass with the force of his momentum. A nearby caravan of Human traders stared in amazement at him, but that was only because they were far too late to admire the runner still sprinting in the distance.
Frustrated, the Drake pulled his spear out and stabbed the ground. This was a first. He’d never—well, seldom ever been outrun. And never by a Human. He stared at Ryoka’s tiny back with a hint of admiration in his eyes.
Then he turned and began trudging back to the group of guards he’d left. They were several miles away. Relc grumbled about the inconvenience, conveniently forgetting he’d been the one to challenge Ryoka to a race. He took one more glance into the distance, but couldn’t see Ryoka’s figure anymore.
“Humans. Huh. I wonder if Erin knows her?”
——
Somewhere around the same time, Erin Solstice wasn’t shopping. Nor was she in Liscor. In fact, she’d left the city several hours ago. Right now, she was lost.
Notcompletely lost. She knew where Liscor was—roughly. She could follow the mountain range to get to it and therefore back to her inn. So she wasn’t lost in the grand scale of things.
But on a closer, localized level, she was very lost. In fact, Erin would go as far as to say she was completely lost.
She’d left The Wandering Inn behind with her supplies and then…
It was like stepping into a maze, but instead of the walls being vertical, they were all horizontal. Erin frowned. Did that make sense?
The hills and valleys of the grasslands were nearly indistinguishable from the flat ground at a distance, and the uniform long grass made things worse. Erin had to navigate using what little landmarks she could see by.
For instance, there were helpful rocks in the distance…except they occasionally moved around, and getting close to one was a bad idea. Oh, and the grass changed from green to yellow to orange and even purple in lovely patterns!
…Too bad that changed every day. So yes, Erin had little to navigate by other than the mountains and the few objects tall enough to be seen from every hilltop. This place really wasn’t that diverse in local fauna; most of it seemed hidden by the tall grass.
There were patches of red and white flowers that Erin saw now and then in this area, but she had a bad feeling about them. A little bell seemed to go off every time she bent down to pick one up in her head.
“[Dangersense].”
At least, it was probably that. It could just be a random bad feeling, but that was pretty much the same thing when you got down to it. Either way, Erin had decided not to try and smell the pretty flowers.
She looked around as she walked through the grasslands. This was amazing. In more than one sense. For one thing, she’d just spotted a road a few miles to the left. A road. She had no idea Liscor even had a road!
Well, that probably wasn’tthat big a surprise. But Erin had just realized how narrow her little world had been. She’d practically lived only in her inn and occasionally in Liscor without exploring any other direction. And why?
Oh yeah, because of the monsters. Well…there weren’t any she could see. Erin wasn’t too far away from the main road, and Selys had said that was the safest area. She’d made Erin promise to stay close to the area the Watch patrolled.
But now, Erin had found a forest, and she was going to explore it. Because it was a forest. Literally the only trees Erin had found aside from the blue fruit trees. But these looked like proper trees…except they were missing all their leaves. Long, oddlywide branches criss-crossed some vaguely fir-like trees, which had a lot of dark blue-green leaves scattered at the base of the forest in a wide area.
Sturdy, in short, but they’d already lost their leaves. This could have something to do with the season. Apparently, it was around fall, closing in on winter. Erin hadn’t believed it, but Selys had assured her it was true. Apparently, the mountains made it so that the seasons didn’t hit the area around Liscor as hard or something because it wasn’t that chilly.
“Or maybe this is like Florida or California. No snow, no searing heat. That’d be nice. No, wait, Florida’s got muggy mosquitoes and crocodiles. Michigan rules. Yep, yep.”
Erin muttered to herself as she approached the dry-looking trees. It was a lovely forest and not too far away from her inn. Only…forty minutes if she walked straight? Okay, that was a good distance, but only because Erin was on foot.
Hm. The brown wood of the trees was definitely brighter in color than the ones back in her home. They actually looked closer in color to how trees were drawn, not how they actually looked with all the dark bark, moss, and whatnot. Erin wanted to go closer, but then a bell went off in her head.
The [Dangersense]. It had been dinging whenever Erin thought about going close to the flowers, but now it clearly anddefinitely rang out in her mind. From a little dinging bell to, say…a fire alarm. That level of difference. It was like a bad feeling in her gut—except in her head. And it told Erin that she did not want to get closer to the trees.
Erin quickly stepped back. Something was wrong with the forest. But what? They were just trees. But was something living in the forest? In thetrees?
Cautiously, Erin reached into the bag she was carrying with her. She’d brought a small rucksack loaded with a few essentials for a day-long exploration. It hadn’t been too expensive, and she had wanted to be prepared. It wasn’t as if she werecompletely reckless like Selys and Krshia clearly thought she was.
Erin rummaged with one hand as she kept an eye on the forest. It was hard to feel around in her bag without looking, especially because she wanted to keep a certain item in there from breaking. Where was it…?
She’d brought a flint and steel and tinder, which she actually knew how to use in case she needed to make a torch. Not that she planned on exploring any caves, but it seemed like a practical choice. There were also bandages, but Erin didn’t want them. Her hand rummaged through the rucksack blindly.
She also had a long knife in a leather sheath she’d bought from the Adventurer’s Guild. They sold a number of items for adventurers behind their counter, and once Selys realized Erin wasn’t going to be dissuaded, she’d insisted Erin take one.
And a healing potion, of course. It was expensive—nearly a gold coin even for a weak potion, but Erin would have bought one regardless of the price. She’d learned her lesson.
Something smooth. That was the hand mirror. Apparently, this was an adventurer’s tool to check for injuries like poison barbs or in case of basilisk attacks. Whether or not basilisks actually existed…Erin had figured she could use a mirror anyways.
She’d bought it because she really wanted one, but the thought of a grizzled warrior checking out his appearance was also pretty funny.
Erin had laughed, but then Selys had told her about how some bugs could sink into an adventurer’s skin and lay eggs that would hatch and eat them from inside out. That had been disgusting and made Erin feel like a jerk for laughing. But it still hadn’t stopped her from exploring, especially after Selys admitted those insects didn’t live anywhere near Liscor.
Selys didn’t seem to get it. Come to that, Krshia didn’t really get it either. The Gnoll seemed to think Erin was trying to avenge Klbkch. She’d offered to come along to ‘hunt’ with Erin, but Erin had refused.
None of them really understood. They thought Erin was crazy, and she probably was, but her reason made sense to Erin. This was something she had to do.
“I wish—”
Erin broke off and shook her head. What was she doing? Erin stared blankly at the object she’d pulled out of her pack. Oh, right.
She was holding a rock. In fairness, it was a nice rock. Rough around the edges, true, but a prime specimen of a rock nonetheless. Erin could hold this rock and know it was definitely made of stone. It was nicely heavy too, and it was her prime defense against anything.
Erin hefted it and squinted at the tree. Hm. She backed up until she was around fifty feet away. That seemed safe enough. Then she lifted the rock, took aim, andthrew.
Erin had never played baseball as a kid. It was a boy’s game, at least where she’d grown up, and they were all jerks when it came to letting girls have a turn. But she’d played catch now and then, and there were plenty of baseball games on TV that she would occasionally watch. In short, Erin had a pretty good idea of how fast a baseball could be thrown.
The rock she tossed had about the same velocity as a fastball. Not a major-league fastball, the kind that could dent metal or kill people but—actually, this was a rock. It could totally kill people, even at Erin’s slower velocity.
And it had perfect accuracy. Erin watched the rock she’d thrown strike one the trees dead center, hard enough to dent the bark. Another Skill. [Unerring Throw]. With it, Erin literally couldn’t miss.
The rock fell to the ground. Erin watched the tree. The branches were shaking from the impact, but nothing else happened. Maybe there wasn’t anything living in the trees after all. Or maybe it was hiding or only lived in certain trees or somewhere deeper in the forest. Or maybe—
Waitaminute. Erin froze. The branches were still quivering long after the impact. Why were they doing that? But the tree seemed toflex and—
Her body was diving, so Erin didn’t see what happened at first—just theroar of sound like a thousand popcorn kernels exploding. Popcorn kernels the size of car tires with the sound of a car backfiring, maybe. And the tree erupted into…
Fireworks.Each branch and twig on the upper section of the tree instantly and spontaneously exploded outwards like a shrapnel bomb going off. Acorns, pieces of bark, and small bits of the branch fired outwards, thousands of bullets.
Erin dove to the ground as the deadly wooden hail rained around her. She was lucky. The explosion was far enough away that most of what hit her had lost its momentum. She felt bits of wood showering her as she covered her head with her hand. A few sharp impacts struck her clothing—but Erin was mostly just terrified.
Only when she was quite,quite sure everything had stopped did Erin look up.
The tree was completely denuded of bark and most of its smaller branches. It stood among its fellows, the pale yellow-green-white of its trunk showing. Around it in a hundred meter radius, bits of the tree lay on the grass.
Shakily, Erin got to her feet. She felt something trickling down her face and touched at her cheek. Something—an acorn—had cut a shallow gash down her left cheek. She looked at the blood on her fingertips and tried not to throw up.
——
It was only after she’d put at least a mile between her and the exploding trees that Erin stopped to call herself twenty kinds of stupid. Then she decided never to ever go near anything tree-related again without a flamethrower. Monsters were one thing, but this—
Erin sighed and sat down on a small hill. Well, that was probably why no one explored around this area. Exploding trees. Unless you were wearing armor—and even if you were—those things were deadly. She imagined what would happen if Rags and her Goblin friends tried to gather firewood from the trees and shuddered.
Curiously, her near-death experience left Erin ravenous. She opened her rucksack and fished around cautiously inside until she pulled something squishy out. She unwrapped the wax paper and revealed a slightly squashed sandwich. Apparently, Drakes weren’t the biggest bread-fans in the world—and neither were Gnolls.
Oh, they respected the stuff enough to make sandwiches, but Erin had learned that they were closer to carnivores than Humans. But their sandwiches still tasted great. This particular sandwich had mustard, or something sweet that tasted vaguely like it, cheese, and alot of meat. Erin devoured it and then wished she hadn’t eaten so quickly. She clutched at her stomach, and then she saw the spider.
“Oh god.”
It was a large spider. It had a bright yellow pattern on its back, almost like a melted skull or face, yellow and brown. The back carapace was twice as wide as a tennis racket, and huge legs crawled the spider forwards as its black eyes,dozens of bulbs staring blankly ahead, let it scuttle through the grass while seeing in every direction. A large—no, huge spider. And it had—
“Oh god. Is thatarmor?”
Maybe it wasn’t armor. Maybe it was. But the yellow and black pattern on the spider’s back made the thick layer of…carapace look even more sinister than it was. It looked like a blown up house-spider with plated armor, especially in the way the plating covered the giant spider’s legs and the top of its body. Erin was pretty sure itwas armor.
Click.
The spiderclicked its mandibles together as it approached Erin. She froze up, but then grabbed her rucksack and scrambled away. The spider scuttled faster, and Erin backed up even faster.
She turned and ran. That was, until Erin’s [Dangersense] went off like alarm bells. She stopped in place. What was—
It was nearly too late. Erin was just about to take another step when she noticed the odd way the ground seemedflimsy in front of her feet. She took a look behind her—the armored spider was still a ways away. She kicked at the ground, and it collapsed.
A huge pit opened up in front of Erin. The fake earth—in fact, some kind of green amalgam of dead grass and sticks—fell down, and Erin stared down into the face of hell. A nest full of spiders. And eggs.
They were everywhere, tiny spiders, big spiders, and eggs. So many white egg sacs that lay on the ground and walls of the massive cavern like obscene fungi. And as the trap ground fell in, they all surged into frantic motion. A writhing horde of legsskritched together as they swarmed the bits of dirt right below Erin.
Spiders began scurrying all over the huge nest, scurrying all over each other as they searched for the prey that had fallen into their nest. Their pincers opened and closed, revealing fleshy…insides, biting at the air hungrily. Meanwhile, the prey standing at the edge of the nest backed away in horror.
It was only when she heard thescuttling of the other armored spider that Erin remembered it was behind her. She turned, screamed, and ran around the edge of the pit. It followed her, but interestingly, the other spiders in the cavern below didn’t. They were still mindlessly swarming around the ground, protecting the eggs and searching for something to eat. But the large one was still hunting her.
She ran. It followed. Slowly, quietly. Even after Erin had run several hundred meters, she could turn around and still see it approaching. And then she realized it wasn’t going to stop. It was a premonition. The spider was going to follow her until she stopped.
So Erin slowed from her run to a walk. She turned around and took the rucksack off her back. Erin reached inside and pulled out two things: a rock and a small jar stoppered up extremely thoroughly. She placed the jar at her feet in the grass and hefted the rock.
It was stupid to go exploring. Selys had told her that a hundred times. Krshia had said the same thing, but she’d suggested coming along with Erin with a few more Gnolls. Erin had shot down both ideas. She had to do this alone.
Maybe it was going to kill her, but Erin had woken up screaming and crying every night since Klbkch died. So she didn’t run. She picked up the rock and aimed at the spider.
Its head was black, and Erin couldn’t make out any features. Just the bulbous eyes, like a fungoid growth—no pupils and, somehow, even less like a person’s face than the Antinium’s multi-faceted eyes. She expected the spider to have large jaws or something, but the pincers were small. It was still oversized and horrific.
“I’d say stop, but you don’t understand me, do you? Last chance!”
The [Innkeeper] shouted just in case the spider could hear her. It slowed…slightly, and she wavered, but the spider then began to scuttle even faster. Erin waited another second, then hurled the rock at its head.
The stone smashed into the spider’s head and crushed one eye. Greenish blood oozed from the broken orbs as Erin recoiled. The spider reeled back and emitted a high-pitched noise that Erin could only half-hear. For a second, she thought it had worked and the spider would run. But then the spider ducked low to the ground andadvanced.
Its remaining eyes stared blankly at her as green ooze ran down its face. Now Erin knew spiders bled. But the armor covering the spider’s head hadn’t even cracked from the rock. Erin stared at the spider. It was coming.
Huge. Nearly half as tall as she was—albeit long on the ground. Every instinct in Erin was telling her to run. But she didn’t. If she ran, it would follow her.
If she ran far enough, maybe she’d be able to get to the city before she ran out of energy. Maybe she’d run right into another pit trap. But either way, someone would have to kill the spider. If not her, then a guardsman. Relc or Pisces. Or even Rags. Someone would have to fight in the end, and someone might die.
So Erin didn’t run. She held her ground and stared at the spider. It would kill her or she would kill it. She knew that would be the case, and she didn’t run. Because that was the reason she was out here.
To never see someone die protecting her. To never hold them in her arms and hear their last words. To never cry and feel guilt without end.
To never be weak again.
So instead of running, Erin picked up the glass jar she’d placed in the grass. She threw it at the charging spider.
The jar broke, and the green liquid covered the armored spider. This time, however, it wasn’t the impact that mattered.
The spider slowed as the green liquid covered it and instantly began to smoke. This time, itsscreech was longer, more protracted.
Acid. Acid from the Acid Flies. It ate away at the spider, and Erin saw smoke rising from its armor. The acid bit into the spider’s armor, but again, it wasn’t enough. The spider curled up on the grass as smoke rose from its armor and clawed frantically at its ‘face’. But then the smoking eventually stopped and the spider got up.
Of all the—Erin had been sure that the acid from the flies would have dissolved her flesh in a moment. But it occurred to her—belatedly—that of all the species endemic to this area, spiders would be the one species resistant to their natural prey—flies!
Too late to regret not taking two jars. Erin waited. She’d blinded the creature, but now she was fighting a half-blind spider covered in acid that ate away flesh. It approached, and she saw the yellow and black plated exoskeleton was pitted with the green of the Acid Flies. But it wasn’t enough.
Erin reached into her pack and drew out the knife. She threw it, and the blade spun through the air and bounced off the spider’s head. Useless. Erin emptied the rucksack and wrapped it around one hand. She walked forward slowly.
Her ears were pounding. Blood and her crashing heartbeat drowned out everything else. The spider hesitated as Erin walked towards it. It touched the ground delicately with one foreleg and tried to circle. Erin didn’t. She walked towards it. Her eyes stared at a monster scarier than anything else she’d ever seen in her world. But she didn’t run.
Erin stopped a few feet away from the spider. Her pulse was electric; her stomach was missing. She looked down upon it, and the spider hesitated. Erin spoke to it.
“I’ve held a dying friend and known pain. Try and kill me. You can’t eat a broken heart.”
She raised her fists.
“Come on. I’ll bury you deep.”
——
A wind blew down from over the mountains. It was a strong wind, but tired. After hundreds of miles, the gale that had blasted across the sea was no more than a whisper. But it was enough. It carried smoke and burning on the wind.
The female adventurer stopped and looked to the north. The wind blew the dreadlocks of her hair, and she brushed at her eye. The smoke was irritating, but she had learned long ago to see even in sandstorms.
She had never been here, not along the High Passes. She had often seen the mountain range, but hither-to this day, she had never been allowed to walk this far north on Izril’s land. It would have taken an army to bring her this far, before. She would have been an enemy, and reaching this spot would have meant a triumph, half a continent taken by force of arms.
…These days, no one contested her simply because of her reputation and because all wars had ended long ago. These days, she searched for something unique, and even the geography of places she had not been did not excite her.
She had seen every wonder, ridden across great nations, fought in the greatest wars of this generation, and seen millions bend knee, if not to her, then to the man she rode behind.Smoke, this mildly unique geography, held little intrinsic interest to her anymore.
Still, it was curious because she’d heard no one lived out in the wilds. Perhaps a [Hunter]? She had all the time in the world, so the adventurer walked towards the smoke. She didn’t bother drawing the large sword resting along her back in a huge sheath. She couldn’t carry it at her side because the blade was too long.
She had no need of it yet. Her confidence was not unfounded either.
The woman wore armor made out of some dark metal. Not dark in the sense of jet-black iron or the lightless color of obsidian—just dark, orange-brown metal. From afar, it almost looked like rust, but the armor wasn’t rusty. In fact, it was fairly clean—it was just the metal that gave off that impression.
It had never been broken. Not by magic or force of arms, and she had worn it for decades. It was like the adventurer’s second skin, and it did not impede her movement as she strode towards the smoke. But she stopped as she saw the spider.
It was crawling up from a hole in the side of a hill. Burning wood had been placed around the gap, but the spider was determined. It shoved its way past the fire, screeching horribly and smoking. When it saw the female adventurer, it reacted instantly. The spider lunged.
The adventurer drew her sword and cut twice. The spider fell to the ground, legs and abdomen severed. Yellow pus oozed from its backside as the adventurer studied it.
“Kingslayer Spiders? No—Shield Spiders.”
She left the Shield Spider where it lay. The adventurer continued onwards, and upon reaching the top of the hill, she saw the main source of the black fumes.
A large pit was giving off black smoke. Orange sparks and a terrible red glow lit the edges of the pit like a gateway to some abyssal plane. But that wasn’t what drew the adventurer’s eye.
A girl was sitting by herself at the edge of the smoking pit. She stared into it, ignoring the small campfire on her right. She was hugging her knees as she stared down. She did not see or hear the second spider crawling up behind her.
It lunged. The adventurer gripped her sword, but the girl at the edge of the pit moved like lightning. She rolled sideways even as the Shield Spider launched itself at her back. The momentum carried the spider over the ledge and into the smoking hole. The adventurer heard an agonizedshriek from the spider as the girl went back to sit at the edge of the hole.
Cautiously, the adventurer approached. Not out of fear for herself, but she was studying the girl with a great deal of confusion. Her eye narrowed as she appraised the girl. And she was a girl, especially to the adventurer.
As she moved closer, the girl looked up at her. She was Human. She didn’t stand up, but merely angled the thing at her feet more precisely.
A small mirror lay in the grass in front of the girl, reflecting the landscape behind her. It was propped up on a small backpack, or what remained of one. In truth, it was more like a pile of cloth scraps.
The adventurer eyed the girl. She seemed unharmed. But she also didn’t appear inclined to chat. So the adventurer cleared her throat.
“Hello there.”
“Hello.”
The girl didn’t glance up. She hugged her knees and stared down into the smoke. Curious, the adventurer drew closer. Her hand wasn’t gripping her sword, but neither was she unwary.
Now that she was only a few feet away, she could feel the heat radiating out of the pit. It was intense, but it was a fire in its final stages. Clearly, the fire had been going for quite some time, but again, that wasn’t what drew the adventurer’s attention. No, it was the many shapes that lay curled up at the bottom of the fiery pit.
Spiders.
They lay in droves, their armored carcasses smoking and burning horribly in the flames that danced around the edge of the hole in the ground. Some had tried to climb. They hung, dangling, their legs still planted in the dirt walls where they had perished.
“A nest. I have heard they are a hazard around here to travellers.”
“Yeah. It’d be bad if you fell in without seeing it first.”
The adventurer blinked her eye at the girl.
“Did you do this? By yourself?”
“Yeah.”
“May I ask how?”
The Human girl paused. She rocked back and forth for a while before responding.
“I closed off all the entrances with dried grass and wood. Then I started tossing burning branches into the pit.”
“Where did you get the wood?”
“There’s a forest over there. Bunch of trees and lots of dead wood.”
The adventurer glanced over in the direction the girl was pointing. She nodded.
“Krakk trees. They do burn well, but you were lucky none of them exploded. They do that quite often, and the shrapnel is deadly.”
“They did explode.”
The adventurer raised an eyebrow. She looked at the girl with one eye and then opened several more to study her more fully.
“Oh?”
“I threw rocks at the trees until they exploded. Then I picked up the branches. It’s not dangerous if you make them explode first.”
“I see. Clever.”
“Thanks.”
One of the adventurer’s eyes glanced over to her right. At the corpse of the spider battered to death.
“Did you do that as well?”
“Yeah.”
“Few could best a Shield Spider with their bare hands.”
The girl shrugged again. She clutched at her arms unconsciously.
“It wasn’t hard. I flipped it and started stomping.”
“You have a Skill. [Lesser Strength]. Even so, I see you were injured.”
The girl—no, the adventurer saw her name was Erin Solstice—rubbed at her arms. The adventurer could see patches of regrown skin, almost invisible to any eyes but hers, covering her forearms.
“Yeah. I had a healing potion.”
“If you’d been bit, the potion would have done you little good. Shield Spiders have a decently strong venom.”
“Lucky I wasn’t, then.”
More silence. The adventurer was slightly surprised. She was used to silence, especially on longer journeys, but she was also used to conversation when she met people. At the very least, she expected questions about her appearance, but the girl had only glanced at her once. She was still staring into the burning pit.
“Shield Spiders are considered to be a Silver-rank threat. A nest of them though…I wouldn’t be surprised if a team of Gold-rank adventurers were dispatched to handle it.”
“Okay. Thanks for telling me.”
It was odd. Even in her journey north to this part—even on her dry continent she called home—the adventurer was used to people staring at her or reacting in some way to her appearance or her famous name. But the young woman just stared into the fiery pit. Quiet. The woman cleared her throat.
“You are a Level 11 [Innkeeper]. I am surprised you were able to accomplish such a feat. Few would be so brave, even ten levels higher. And you are no adventurer.”
That provoked a response. Two hazel eyes swung up and narrowed slightly, blinking in the smoke.
“How do you know that about me?”
“I see it.”
“Ah.”
Erin stared into the pit for a while. She rocked back and forth.
“I wanted to see if I could fight. And the spiders—they were going to follow me.”
“Shield Spiders are notorious for tracking and killing prey across dozens of miles. You were wise not to run.”
“I guess. But I wanted to fight. To see if I could.”
“Ah.”
The adventurer sat next to Erin. She felt the heat but was not bothered by it. Her eye stung, though.
“And? What have you learned?”
Erin was silent. She stared into the burning tunnels. Amid the crackling flames, she could hear the spiders screaming.
“…That I’m good at killing things.”
The adventurer was silent. Erin rocked. Back and forth. Back and forth.
“It’s strange. Up until this point, I never realized I was a murderer.”
The adventurer raised her eyebrow.
“Murderer? That’s an interesting word. I would not use it to describe you.”
“Oh yeah? Why?”
The adventurer spoke as if she were reciting law, with pure confidence.
“Murder is the sin of taking lives that matter. We who fight such monsters are exterminators. Killers, perhaps; murderers, no. A murderer should not be suffered.”
Her eye narrowed, and Erin stared at it, then at her hands.
“I’m not like you. I’m no adventurer. And I don’t want to be. That’s what I learned.”
“Oh? Then why fight? [Innkeepers] don’t level from fighting monsters.”
Erin laughed shortly and without mirth.
“You guys all say the same thing. It’s always about leveling with you. That’s not what Imeant. I—I’m a killer. But I don’t want to be. And I don’t want to be a warrior, either.”
The adventurer leaned back on her hands. She studied Erin with her eye. This was a far more fascinating conversation than hundreds she’d had in the last months.
“Then why fight? Why not run?”
“So I can defend myself. So I don’t get people killed for trying to protect me.”
“Ah. But you have done more than that. This nest was a threat to many. You eliminated it. You spoke truly: you do have a talent for fighting.”
Erin stared into the pit.
“I don’t want to be a killer. So I guess I’m stuck as an innkeeper.”
The adventurer didn’t follow her logic and shrugged her armored shoulders.
“You have talent in killing things. You might be a good adventurer, especially since you wiped out a nest by yourself. Why are you ashamed of—”
The adventurer broke off as Erin laughed harshly.
“Killing? That’s a terrible thing to be good at. No.”
She turned—and saw a toothy smile from the woman. A sharp one—for she had sharp teeth. Disappointed as well, for she disagreed.
“A talent for war is never wasted. What a shame you don’t see it that way.”
She stared at the adventurer, and the adventurer felt another mild surprise. There were few who could meet her gaze for long without flinching.
“…Go away.”
The woman closed one eye in a slow blink and inclined her head.
“My apologies. I didn’t want to offend you.”
“Too bad. This—this isn’t something to be proud of.”
Erin pointed down into the burning pit. She gestured at the spiders and the white egg sacks slowly burning away. The adventurer could still hear faint shrieks coming from inside the resilient webbing.
“I killed them.”
Erin whispered it.
“I killed them all. And they—theyscream when they die.”
“They would have killed you.”
“Yeah.”
Erin stared as one of the egg sacs below opened up. Small spiders frantically clawed their way out of the webbing and shrieked as they found themselves in the burning pit. They scuttled down across the embers, burning, dying.
“Babies.”
“Spawn. They are as dangerous as adults in numbers.”
“They’re babies.”
The female adventurer shrugged. She felt like she was talking with a Djinni—this felt like a game of words and riddles, but this was just a burnt young woman.
“You might call them that.”
Erin looked down into the pit. She was silent for a minute. The spiders were running about, but the heat from the fire was less. They were dying, but dying slow. She saw one spider caught in the egg sac, frantically trying to escape.
“If you like, I can end them now—”
The adventurer turned to Erin to offer. She blinked as Erin leapt into the burning pit.
The smoke obscured Erin from visual sight for a few seconds, but the adventurer could still see her moving around in the pit. She saw Erin fighting through the flames, reaching for something. Then she was dashing towards the edge of the pit.
The girl scrabbled at the dirt and managed to get a foothold. But she was hindered by her burden. She managed to pull herself up to the ledge but couldn’t get any higher up. The adventurer stared down until she heard Erin speak.
“Are you going to pull me up?”
“Of course.”
The adventurer reached down and effortlessly pulled Erin out. The girl was burned, but not badly from the few moments she was in the pit. She opened her left hand and showed the adventurer what she held.
A baby spider struggled and bit furiously at Erin’s fingers. She’d captured it from the top, so it couldn’t really get at her, but its sharp legs still scrabbled at her fingers.
“What are you going to do with that?”
Erin shrugged.
“Dunno. I could raise it.”
“I wouldn’t. It would bite and consume you first chance it got. Shield Spiders cannot be tamed. Unless you had the [Beastmaster] class, this child will eventually take your life.”
“Yeah, probably. This was a stupid idea.”
Erin stared down at the spider in her hands. It was trying to bite her.
“…Sorry. Really, I am.”
She held it for another second until the spider’s legs cut open more of her fingers. Then she hurled it back down into the pit. The adventurer studied her. A tear rolled down Erin’s sooty face as she watched the baby spider burn.
“What a curious Human you are.”
“…Is that your way of saying I’m an idiot?”
“Not at all. But I have met many Humans. Many Humans and many races, but never one as curious as you. Many bolder or grander or more dangerous—but never one so oddly as this.”
“Thanks. I’ve never met anyone like you.”
The woman inclined her head. Then, she blinked one huge eye and the other four in rapid succession.
“I am part Gazer. It is in my ancestry. You may call me by the name others not of my race give me. Gazi.”
“Oh? I’m Erin Solstice. A…an [Innkeeper].”
“Yes, I saw.”
Gazi held out her hand. After a moment, Erin took it. It was odd for her to shake Gazi’s hand. For one thing, she had odd arms with another segment to them. But her skin was soft and smooth, even if it were reddish-brown. Really, even her hair looked pretty normal, black lengths tied into dreadlocks. It was only her face that really set her apart.
One huge eye stared out at Erin over a mouth filled with sharp teeth. Gazi had no nose. And around her central eye, four smaller eyes opened and studied her with interest. They were not the most unsettling eyes, though each one had a pupil unlike a Human’s. Long and even wobbling, not a perfect circle but an oval, long and lengthwise. The whites of her eyes were closer to a yellow, very faint.
Her gauntleted hand had four digits too, three fingers and a thumb, which she held out to the young woman.
“I am pleased to meet you, Innkeeper Solstice. I am an adventurer wandering through these lands.”
“Nice to meet you. Again. I’ve got an inn nearby. Would you…do you want something to eat?”
Another odd offer, but this one made Gazi smile. She nodded and stood in one fluid motion. Her central eye swiveled right, left, up, and down—even backwards into her head, but she fixed the other four on Erin.
“That would be most welcome.”
“Okay. Okay then. Follow me.”
Erin picked up the mirror on the ground. She left her sliced up rucksack behind and began walking away from the burning pit. She was…still dazed, but she pointed in the direction of Liscor.
Gazi stared down into the pit and back at Erin. She coughed, again, with mild amusement at the [Innkeeper] and gestured at the embers.
“Don’t you want to claim the bounty on the Shield Spiders before you go? Their carcasses will not burn up in the flames.”
Erin paused. She turned around.
“…There’s a bounty on Shield Spiders?”
Gazi Pathseeker searched her face for a sign of lies—but saw only genuine confusion. Confusion to something everyone knew—so the half-Gazer laughed. Softly, and her huge eye fixed on something creeping up over the hill behind them.
A Rock Crab was slowly climbing the hill, pincers raised.The half-Gazer stared at it through the back of her head and the hill and the crab’s shell, and the monster froze. It held still and sunk under the stone armor it hid behind as the half-Gazer talked to Erin Solstice.
The Rock Crab stayed there, as the two conferred, and didn’t move. It didn’t stop shaking until long, long after the two were gone.
Shield Spiders by Enuryn
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T03:14:40)
Shield spiders are kinda gross. They look like crabs. But some crabs look like spiders. Y’all ever seen a coconut crab? Nightmare fuel. But also kinda pretty.
Anyways. Uh. Leave a typo.
juppie (2023-03-13T16:07:18)
Shield spiders artwork though is very nice.
Ryuuku (2023-03-22T23:41:42)
Makes sense, as those species are kind of like cousins to spiders.
Bryan (2023-04-13T20:13:42)
I have a theory that when the F’ed up the summoning, the actual heroes ended up scattered. Ryoka was the rogue, Erin the Strategist, Medic went you know where, Mage probably is at Wistrim, Barbarian is probably prison girl, and any others could be, well, any one.
reader (2023-06-04T12:48:01)
Erin’s sense of justice is not understandable(i will not use the word annoying). they were spiders, monsters, animals, insects. no one, i mean no one feels remorse for killing them. besides when these things are out to get you, one only thinks about survival until all your other senses get consumed by it. this moral dilemna that she is having does not make sense.babies,
Reading Person (2023-06-16T10:18:35)
Geria was remonstrating with Calruz. The Runner refused to.
I’m guessing that person is not a fusion of two characters and it’s supposed to Ceria.
Ryan (2023-09-18T23:36:11)
I definitely disagree with her POV aswell but I understand it somewhat, keep in mind this is an Erin that just had her life saved by an Ant thing friend. And really these spiders are not much different from the mindless workers of that species.
marine (2023-10-25T17:18:35)
if Erin was supposed to be the strategist, the summoning mechanism must have been insanely literal, since her chess skills are the most strategic part of her, and she thinks of it as just a game
I think she would fit into the defensive/negotiator role, able to charm people the team meets and make allies
Scrifty (2023-11-08T05:15:01)
Yeah she’s definitely the strangest altruist I’ve seen. I can see goblins butspiders!??
Setern (2023-11-10T21:03:36)
I think she’s feeling an aversion to all killing of any kind. So she’s viewing all death and killing as theoretically equal but understands that she and others have to kill to survive while also applying that to things like spiders. Since all creatures have to kill as a necessity, so she can empathize with even the spiders. I actually enjoy extreme moralities like this. In this particular case it means you can pity something while you brutally murder it “rules of nature” style.
Toni (2023-11-27T17:34:51)
Can’t believe the teasing that went on here. Come on man, I just wanted Ryoka and Erin to meet :(
Relc doing the stereotypical racist “wonder if they all know each other” thing was funny
Magicperson1 (2024-01-08T22:01:31)
I really wish this chapter had a tw for arachnophobia. I’ve always thought tws were cringe but now I understand
yagoldt (2024-01-11T22:15:22)
So what Erin is a buddhist? Can’t kill anything ever even if it’s man eating giant spiders, how nice.
yagoldt (2024-01-11T22:18:45)
The thing is that she beats herself and others over it. It’s an unfortunate reality that animals have to kill to survive and it doesn’t make her or anyone else a murderer.
Can't believe (2024-02-12T07:17:58)
Didn’t she just burn an entire colony of spiders?
Sbiiii (2024-03-09T08:51:41)
No, she is just a result of poor writing, if she has extreme morals, why is she not vegan???
Zen0s (2024-03-29T20:36:26)
Is this how her character going to be?
Its annoying, i don’t get why she is not realising she is in another world, same morals doesn’t apply
lighto782 (2024-04-16T00:40:10)
It’s kinda painful seeing the two storylines getting that close but not crossing each other.
Loki (2024-08-31T06:43:27)
she is in another world, same morals doesn’t apply
You seem to be viewing morals as a function of circumstance, whereas Erin views them as a function of self.
By that I mean you sound like morals are dependent on the circumstances you are in. Erin, on the other hand, considers her morals part of her and largely unchanging. And she is trying to keep her morals not in spite of, but because she is in another world.
She has that in common with Ryoka, who like two chapters ago was not willing to give Magnolia the secrets to gunpowder to save herself.
(She also has that in common with Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager, who, when stranded half a galaxy away from all humans and the Federation whose values she draws on, chooses to stick to those values.)
You asss (2024-10-09T00:40:20)
You are an idiot, she doesn’t like killing but she sees why it must be done (to survive)that is the reason why she still killed the babies. Thats the reason why she is still not vegan.
AbraCadaver (2024-10-10T10:17:08)
I can’t believe you came up with an excuse to get Ryoka down south, all the way to the inn… without even meeting Erin there. Is she really gonna run back north without their path’s actually crossing?? You’re hurting me, Pirateaba…
Sebastian (2024-11-02T18:57:41)
You big tease!!!
Salamander (2025-01-21T12:34:54)
Idk man, I would feel bad for a good while if I killed a spider, bee or an ant by accident. I still feel tormented by the ladybug massacre I committed when I was a younger.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.37
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-37/

At first, the laden cart rumbling through the northern city gates attracted little attention. This late in the day, the traffic going in and out had thinned, but there was nothing odd about two passengers sitting on the back of the cart while a Drake [Farmer] brought his merchandise into market.
The expression on the cart driver’s face and the way the guardsmen at the gate reacted when they inspected the bulky objects strapped under the tarp attracted some attention, however. So perhaps one or two [Merchants] made a note to inquire about any unusual shipments, and the extremely bored people-watchers might have drifted that way. But many things passed through Liscor, sometimes objects considered illegal in Human lands orvery illegal in every land. Those were usually confiscated.
A wise [Merchant] with illicit cargo skipped Liscor’s annoying gate checks altogether and just sent someone to buy enough food and supplies to continue south or north. This was an odd route, this bridge between Drake and Human lands.
For one thing, you could only run it during two seasons out of the year: fall and winter. Spring and Summer were far too dangerous because of the Bloodfields.
Liscor was definitely no trading city like Pallass, the closest Walled City, but it occasionally got high-profile [Merchants] making a journey that essentially locked them into one part of the continent for a year. Unless they took a sea route to mitigate the High Passes issues.
“Not a lot of business in Liscor these days, huh? Is this route even worth it?”
A local Drake [Trader] was commenting idly to a Human busily buying up more hay and bundles of food for his pack animals. They’d have to go just past the Bloodfields…which were probably safe…and it would be a while before they’d reach a settlement again.
“The Bloodfields run? It’s not something I’d do often, but I have a bunch of ore from Esthelm and Invrisil’s latest fads. It’ll be gold for copper—if the Bloodfields are quiet. I’m bound straight for either Hectval to unload the ore or, if they don’t want what I’m selling, Pallass’ steelworks.”
“Anyone coming up north?”
Any important [Merchants], the question meant. The Human resisted saying ‘for what?’ He was one of a few Humans who came to Liscor, and they were all traders, travellers, or adventurers.
The city wasn’t exactly fun to be in, and he wanted to be at least cordial with the locals, so he shrugged.
“Not much call for trade overland. The only one I could think who’d even make the journey is…the Silver Trader. I heard she might be heading north, because of her family.”
“Oh? Isn’t she from one of your [Lord]-type families?”
“Mhm. Well, that’s all I need. Can you load them in my wagons?”
“Sure, I’ll call some [Laborers] over.Hey! I need eight…”
The trading area just past the northern gates was fairly busy due to the [Merchant], so the farmer’s odd wagon was unnoticed as yawning Drakes and Gnolls walked over.
The two passengers didn’t attract much attention either, at least to begin with. One of the two was a humanoid figure concealing her face with a casual woolen hood. That was normal, although anyone who actually saw the face hiding underneath the hood had a verydefinite reaction. But because they had to go through shock, denial, and optionally fear/awe, the wake of her passing attracted little notice. Again, at first.
The Human was another matter. For many of the Drakes who saw her, she was just another annoying Human arriving as part of the massive influx of adventurers, merchants, and all those seeking to profit from the ruins. At best, she was exploitable and had lots of coin; at worst, the Watch would throw her out if she caused trouble as Humans so often did.
Still, some of the Drakes recognized the Human girl and remembered that this was the girl who had beaten Olesm in a game of chess and was rumored to have met the Antinium Queen. Not least, the Antiniumbowed to her, which was disturbing. So she attracted the most attention, but only in the form of vague interest at most from Drake observers.
Among the few Gnolls in the crowd, however, Erin’s appearance was entirely noticed and significant. Several immediately began walking away through the crowd to find a certain Gnoll shopkeeper, and the rest followed Erin and the mysterious cart.
The Human [Merchant] brightened at the sight of another Human face—most of his workers and caravaners for this haul were Drakes and Gnolls, going home. He was about to see what this young woman was doing here when he spotted her companion—and froze. Then he noticed the mysterious cart too.
Well, mysterious was the wrong word. For the Gnolls, who could smell better than they saw, the contents of the wagon weredeeply disturbing. It was only because the contents were also definitely dead that they were willing to get near to the wagon at all. Even then, several wrinkled their noses at the burned smell.
Crowds had a flow and instinct of their own. Despite themselves, passersby felt drawn into the wake of the crowd as they sensed the flow of pedestrians shifting one way. And as a few people in the crowd shouted out the identity of Erin’s companion, and some children peeked underneath the covered wagon and ran away screaming—
Well, at that point, Erin really wished they would all stop looking at her and Gazi. It wasn’t that she minded the attention…
Actually, shedid mind the attention. But more than that, she really needed to pee. But she didn’t want to start squirming in front of the nice people, so she suffered in silence. It really was a long way to the Adventurer’s Guild. And it got longer each time more people joined the crowd. She had a feeling that around 10% of the excitement was due to the dead spider corpses packed in the cart, but the other 90% was definitely Gazi.
——
When Selys saw Erin walk through the doors of the Adventurer’s Guild she couldn’t help calling out.
“Erin! Thank goodness you’re okay!”
Selys went from behind the counter to go up to Erin, but she quickly retreated as a flood of people poured into the room behind Erin. She stared at the crowd of pedestrians and then at Erin. Her eyes narrowed suspiciously.
“…Erin? What’s going on?”
Erin smiled awkwardly.
“Hi, Selys. Um, I’m here to collect a bounty? That’s how it works, right?”
“Bounty…?”
The Drake stared blankly at Erin until she realized everyone was now looking at her. Then she blushed, or rather, the scales on her face changed color.
“Oh, of course! You can turn in—you have abounty?”
“Yep.”
Selys looked Erin up and down. The Human didn’t appear to be carrying anything in her hands or at her side.
“Is it…Goblin ears?”
“No…I think they’re called Shield Spiders. Is that right?”
Erin looked at a hooded person standing next to her. Selys’ eye was caught by distinctive features of the half-Gazer as she pushed back her hood. In her mind, an alarm bell went off, but it was temporarily silenced by something Erin had said.
“Shield Spiders? Erin, that’s not a good—you’re mistaken. Or is this some kind of joke? You can’t be serious.”
Erin shook her head.
“No, really. There’s a cart of them outside. I didn’t count how many but—”
Erin broke off. Selys was giving her the flat, incredulous look she’d only seen in TV shows before.
“Shield Spiders?”
“Uh, yeah.”
“You. Killed them.”
“Yeah.”
“You. Erin Solstice. Killed Shield Spiders.”
Erin felt like she was in a comedy routine, only it was more awkward than funny. She pointed towards the door.
“Look, they’re right outside. I can go get one if you want.”
Selys’ gaze shifted over Erin’s shoulder. She appealed to the Drakes in the crowd, many of whom were watching the interchange.
“Shield Spiders?”
Erin sensed multiple heads nodding behind her. One of the Drakes—this one an adventurer by the sword on his waist and chainmail armor—jerked a thumb at the door.
“They’re piled up in a cart. I saw them—over sixteen adults, dead and covered in soot. The Watch is trying to get some Workers to unload them, but there’s a huge crowd in the way, and the Workers don’t want to do it.”
Now that she was listening, Selys could hear the shouting outside. She was still focused on the Erin-factor however, so she kept staring at Erin.
“How? Did an adventurer do it? It can’t have been just you.”
Erin frowned, dignity hurt. Since she agreed with Selys’ incredulousness though, she was only partially indignant.
“I totally did it by myself. I burned their entire nest. With wood. And fire.”
She didn’t know why she felt the need to add that qualifier, but at least it shut Selys up. One of the Drakes—the one with the chainmail—nodded at Erin and flashed her a smile.
“Fine work. I’ve never seen you around the Guild before. Are you one of the Humans from up north?”
“What? No. I’m not an adventurer. I’m an [Innkeeper].”
He stared. Erin was sort of getting used to that. Selys pulled at the frills at the top of her head.
“How did you—you know they swarm over anyone that falls into their nest and tear them apart, right?”
Erin nodded.
“They did that swarming thing—you know, where all of them climb up at once? Wasn’t fun.”
She stared at Selys. Selys stared back. After a few moments, Selys threw her hands up.
“Okay. Okay, I guess—I’ll have to inspect them. And then we’ll need to weigh the bodies. It’ll take all day probably, but if you sign for them, I’ll have your bounty waiting later.”
She reached under the counter and pulled out a logbook and handed Erin a quill and inkpot. Erin frowned down at the paper and began scribbling.
“Do I have to find a place to get rid of them after you’re done? Because Ireally don’t want to have to dig a hole, and the nest is far away.”
“No—we’ll definitely take them. Do you evenknow how valuable Shield Spider bodies are? With the right skills, a [Blacksmith] could create shields, armor…”
“Really? So the bounty—”
“Four pieces of silver on average per Shield Spider slain, but we’ll pay you more for their bodies. Especially for the bodies.”
“I don’t want them. But you might have a tough time getting them down. None of the Workers want to go near them.”
Selys glanced towards the door.
“The Antiniumhate spiders. No wonder the Workers are freaking out. I’ll have a few [Porters] do the work instead.”
Selys put her face in her clawed hand for a second before she looked up at her Human friend again.
“Erin, how didyou kill a nest of Shield Spiders? Even if you burned them, most adventurers would rather run than pick a fight with a Shield Spider if they’re not Silver-rank or higher.”
“Really? They’re that tough?”
Selys nodded seriously.
“Incredibly. Steel blades can’t even crack their shells.”
Erin blinked. But then she pointed to the adventurer standing next to her.
“Well,she cut one in half.”
Every eye turned towards the Gazer standing next to Erin. Or—as some including Selys recognized—the half-Gazer. A rare species made even rarer by her mixed blood. So rare, in fact, that the odds were if you met one—
Selys’ scales were usually a good indicator of her mood, along with her tail. Erin watched now as Selys’ tail stiffened like a cat’s, and her light green scales paled until they were nearly gray.
“Oh. Excuse me.”
The half-Gazer looked at Selys and gave her a polite smile. Selys was reduced to nervous stammering.
“U-um. You wouldn’t happen to be—I mean, are you…?”
“I am Gazi of Reim.”
Dead silence. If Erin’s comment about taking down a nest of Shield Spiders had inspired quiet hubbub, Gazi’s name brought awestruck silence. Silence—and a kind of fear or intimidation that swept through everyone.
In fact, Erin realized she’d been talking to Selys mostly unmolested because the people who had noticed Gazi had turned into virtual statues. Now—at her voice, someone whispered.
“The King of Destruction’s vassal.”
A shiver ran through the audience. Erin glanced around at the staring crowd. She didn’t get it, but she saw even the biggest, toughest adventurers blanch—and then Gazismiled, and her face was full of teeth.
Erin really wanted to know what all this meant, but she had a pressing concern…and this seemed like a really good time to take care of it. As Selys began stammering something and the adventurers and civilians around Gazi backed up to give her room, Erin pushed her way through the crowd and into the bathroom.
Curiously, Liscor’s architects didn’t use the stick-man symbols to mark the men’s rooms and the ladies’ rooms apart. Rather, they used tails. A long, straight tail marked the male bathrooms, and a curly tail marked the female bathrooms. It was quite simple when you got used to it. Curly tail, straight tail.
Even so, Erin peeked inside before she entered. She’d had enough of seeing unwanted genitalia, especially since the equipment the Drakes and Gnolls carried around weredefinitely different than the ones guys in her world had. Not that she was an expert or anything, but—
After a few minutes of relief and ruminating on biological differences, Erin emerged from the restroom. Thank god for plumbing and soap. She saw Gazi was still at the heart of the crowd of people, fending off questions politely. Her large eye didn’t move from the Gnoll speaking earnestly to her, but one of her smaller eyes swiveled Erin’s way the instant the young woman exited the bathroom.
“Nowthat’s creepy.” 
Erin muttered.
“Don’t be rude!”
Selys hissed at Erin and nearly made the young woman scream. The Drake was heading to the bathroom, probably to relieve tension-induced pressure. She pulled Erin aside, and the two began to whisper furiously in one corner, although only one person in the room was watching them.
“Erin,how do you know her?”
“Gazi?”
“You’re calling her by herfirst name?”
“She has a last name?”
“Pathseeker! And it’s Adventurer Pathseeker! That’s how you should be addressing her. Or Gazi of Reim. Or…Gazi the Omniscient! That’s her nickname!”
“That’s confusing. She’s got three different titles? That last one’s sorta cool, I guess.”
Erin was making light of this, but Selys was staring at Gazi in horror, as if afraid the woman would hear them and take offense.
“Erin! She’s a really,really important person! I could lose my job if I make her mad!”
“Really?”
Selys nodded rapidly.
“Gazi the Omniscient. That’s what they call her in other continents. She’s rumored to beover Level 40.”
“Um.Wow…?”
“Erin! How are you not impressed?”
“Well, isn’t Relc level thirty-something? That’s only a difference of ten levels, right?”
The look Selys gave Erin was a mix of incredulity and pure indignation. Not for the first time, Selys wondered if Erin Solstice wasn’t a bit slow or at leaststrange. But she’d said she was from…a different country? Either way, she tried to explain the obvious.
“Erin, she’s a famous adventurer! You know; the kind people write down if they make a list of the top one hundred adventurers in the world!”
“Oh.”
“Don’t you get it? There might be more powerful adventurers, but few of them have ever visited Liscor. And she knowsyou. Did she save you from the Shield Spiders?”
“No, she only cut one of them apart. But she lent me money to hire the wagon to bring them into the city.”
“She lent youmoney!?”
“Yeah, and I’ll pay her back, sostop grabbingmy shirt, Selys. Look, she just seemed interested in me, but I don’t know her that well. But why do you think—”
Erin got no further because Selys’ claws dug into her arm. She yelped and tried to pry the Drake’s fingers out of her skin.
“Oh Ancestors! She’s comingthis way!”
Like a shark moving through a shoal of fish, Gazi’s presence seemed to literally part the wall of bodies. She approached, smiling at Erin.
“I fear we must part ways for a time, Erin Solstice. I must greet the master of this guild and the local ruling body. But I hope I may visit you at your inn for your promised meal.”
Selys’ goggling expression was slightly hard to ignore, but Erin smiled up at Gazi anyways.
“Sure thing. I’m going back to my inn right away, so you can come over whenever works best.”
Gazi gave her an amused smile that included the petrified Drake at Erin’s side. One of her smaller eyes flipped over, so Erin could only see the light orange-pink of her eyeball.
“That may be slightly difficult at the moment.”
Someone was shouting outside. Or rather, someone was outshouting the shouting already going on outside. It was a familiar voice, too.
“Hey! Clear the way!”
Relc’s voice was irate, and he seemed to be yelling at the adventurers and other people trying to crowd into the Adventurer’s Guild. He was also on the verge of losing his temper, which wasn’t usual, but definitely wasn’t helpful at the moment.
“You lot are causing a disturbance! Clear the street I said!Move it!”
Everyone inside the guild heard athump and then a shout and a crash. For all Gazi was their main focus, their attention quickly turned to the outside.
“What’s going on? What’s happening?”
Selys beat Erin to the window and nearly tore her hair-spikes out. Erin still wasn’t sure what to call the crest of hardened…scales or hair each Drake had at the top of their heads.
“Oh no. He’s picking a fight with the adventurers! Thatidiot!”
Erin peered out the window just in time to see an adventurer being lifted off the ground as Relc propped up a guardsman and shoved him into the arms of one of his fellows. It looked like tempers had flared and a guardsman had been knocked down by an adventurer. Possibly it was the other way around, but Erin saw both parties were all-male, so she had a pretty good idea what was going to happen next.
Gazi joined Erin at the window as six of the adventurers squared up and surrounded Relc and the other two guardsmen. Relc glared at them and tightened his fists, but didn’t draw his spear. Gazi stared at him and smiled.
“Ah. A warrior among civilians. A rare sight in peaceful Izril.”
One of the adventurers took a swing at Relc, and he dodged. The Human attacking was nearly as big as the Drake, a muscle-bound giant who looked like the guy who bench-pressed three hundred pounds for fun at the gym.
Erin nudged Gazi in the side. Selys stopped agonizing over the fight long enough to stare at her, but Gazi only looked down. She was wearing armor anyways, so Erin was sure she wasn’t bothering her.
“Hey, you’re supposed to be strong, aren’t you?”
Gazi nodded. She kept her larger eye trained on Relc while two of the smaller ones flicked towards Erin.
“Some have called me so, yes.”
“Why don’t you help him? It’s six against one.”
Erin pointed to the adventurer. He was still missing Relc, but now, another one looked like he was about to sucker-punch the Drake. Relc’s eyes were narrowed, but he seemed to be focused on dodging for the moment.
Gazi smiled down at Erin. She shrugged and indicated the sword at her side. The listeners peered at her, and the half-Gazer’s eye swung around.
“I do not fight with my fists. If I draw my sword—people die. I would prefer not to.”
Again, that shiver, and Erin thought her boast wasn’t much of a boast—but a promise. Gazi nodded at Relc as the big Drake swayed back.
“Besides—he is not the one who needs help.”
Relc had just jumped nimbly back when the big adventurer’s friend moved forwards. He was another Human not nearly as big, but when he swung at Relc’s back he cut the air with his fist.
Still, he was far too slow. Even as his fist flew at Relc’s face, the Drake’s bent sideways and hit the adventurer back with an uppercut. Erin thought she actually saw the man’s feet leave the ground before he crumpled in a heap.
Relc spun around and backhanded the first adventurer, who was still swinging at him. The big guy flipped over and crashed to the ground. Two of his friends came to his aid, but Relc picked one of them up—armor and all—andthrew him into the crowd.
Open-mouthed, Erin watched as Relc began thrashing the other adventurers. She looked at Selys. The female Drake was covering her eyes and groaning.
“Healways does this. There’s going to be a huge mess because of this, and he’s probably hurt a lot of them badly enough for healing potions!”
“How—”
Erin blinked and pointed at Relc.
“I thought—he’s just a guardsman, right? How isRelc tossing those adventurer guys like flies?”
Gazi studied Relc thoughtfully.
“He is over Level 30 in the [Spearmaster] class. That would be enough. The highest level among the adventurers is Level 21—the one he has just knocked unconscious. A [Spearmaster] is not an equal to a mere [Warrior], regardless of levels.”
Selys nodded glumly. She tried to explain to Erin in a way the Human would understand.
“If we’re just talking about active members of the city guards—then he’s the strongest on the continent, by far. Perhaps the world.”
Erin blinked at her. Twice.
“The world. As in…all of it?”
Selys nodded.
“Most people of his level, well, they either become adventurers, personal bodyguards, or soldiers. Being a city guard doesn’t pay much, but Relc likes it. Probably because it’s so easy.”
Erin paused. She didn’t notice Gazi watching her with one of her eyes. The large one. It studied her with its yellow contents, yellow not white—a shadow-black pupil. But the iris shimmered, blue and green, violet and turquoise, a shifting pattern around the black center. It held Selys’ gaze and hypnotized her a moment, before flicking away.
“But Klbkch—”
Erin paused and forced herself to go on.
“He was a Senior Guardsman too, wasn’t he? So weren’t Relc and Klb the same level?”
Selys shook her head. She watched glumly as Relc threw an adventurer wearing plate mail into the side of the building andwinced as the outside plaster cracked. Gazi’s head turned, and her eyes focused on Erin. All five of them.
“Klbkch was the fourth highest-level guardsman in the city. In terms of strength, though, he was probably second to Relc. He was theSlayer, but during the war—look, Erin, both had more levels in other classes, which is why they’re so tough, understand? But even Klbkch was ten levels behind Relc.”
“Which is a lot, I get it. But how’d Relc get so strong?”
“Hewas in the army. But he quit to become a guardsman. Thanks to him, we haven’t had to worry about monster attacks for a long while. I’m not sure why Relc quit, though. He was famous as a soldier too.”
Gazi shrugged. Her hand covered the pommel of her sword, and her eyes unfocused for an instant.
“Many have reasons to leave war. I, too, was a soldier once. As I am sure many know. But I left my position to become an adventurer. It is only worth being a soldier if one has a cause to fight for, a leader to follow, and a reason not to die.”
Both Erin and Selys looked up at her. Gazi smiled at them.
“It is hard to understand, I suppose. But I believe your friend Relc enjoys the quieter moments. Anyone can tire of war. Believe me.”
Then, suddenly, she looked sad, and Selys gave Gazi another look of awed ‘I know what this is about, and it’s so amazing’. Erin just glanced out the window.
“Even a street-fight against a dozen guys? Have you done that before?”
“Many times. That is quite restful compared to war.”
The fight was over. Relc planted his foot over a pile of adventurers and raised his fists into the air like a boxer. The cheer he got from the crowd only served to make him preen even more in the spotlight.
Gazi turned away from the window and nodded at Erin.
“Well, I have not lacked for entertainment since travelling to these lands. I will seek lodgings within the city, then. Good day to you, Erin Solstice. We shall meet again.”
Erin raised a skeptical eyebrow.
“Oh? You’re so sure?”
Gazi smiled at her without baring her teeth.
“I foresee it.”
The half-Gazer opened the door and strode out. It was so quick that all the tension she’d brought into the room left it in an instant. Selys breathed out hard as she returned to the counter, leaning on it and panting as if winded.
“I can’t believe that just happened.”
One of the adventurers flexed his hand and looked down at it.
“I shook her hand. And when she looked at me—it was like she knew mythoughts. The King of Destruction’s vassal. Here. No one’s going to believe I met her.”
“Amazing.”
One of the adventurers agreed. Others nodded their heads as they talked, all in a flurry.
“What an incredible experience.”
“We’re not dead. I mean—the King of Destruction’s asleep. But that was—do you think any of the other Seven are here? The Architect? The Lord of the Skies?”
“No, we’d have heard of it.One is bad enough. Two? I bet the Walled Cities would be escorting them everywhere with an army.”
“Unbelievable.”
“Eh.”
“Eh?”
Erin shrugged.
“I wasn’t too blown away by her. She’s got that ‘mysterious aura’ vibe going on, but it’s all because of her eye, right? I remember seeing this street magician—David Blaine. You ever see—?”
Too late, she remembered her audience. Selys was giving her an incredulous look along with the other adventurers.
“What?”
Selys shook her head slowly. At this point, she wasn’t even that annoyed, just impressed more than anything.
“You are an amazing Human, Erin. Or an oblivious one. Does nothing faze you?”
“Lots of things.”
Erin propped her hands on her hips.
“Why are you all so impressed to see her anyways? She said she was a wanderer.”
“Yeah, but to see her so far from her home continent—I suppose she reallyis done with war.”
The other adventurers agreed. They began talking all at once, arguing, debating in a noisy, confused mess.
“I wonder what she’s doing away from…? I mean, Chandrar’s still her continent.”
“I hear she goes through continents looking for challenges. But to come this far—is it because of the new ruins?”
“Perhaps, but how’d she get word of them so soon? Unless—do you think she was heading to the north already? Terandria, overland? Maybe join in a war as a [Mercenary]?”
“Doubtful. Adventurers don’t like wars, even the former soldiers. It’d take something truly great to get her to go back to being a soldier. And hey—where’d the Human go?”
Everyone looked around. The Human, conspicuous because she was a Human, was missing. Selys stared towards the door. It swung closed.
“Erin!”
——
Erin heard Selys call her name, but at that point, she was out the door and had no intention of going back in. She appreciated gossip and learning new things as much as anyone, but this wasn’t the time. She was hungry, tired, andsore. And the last thing she wanted to do was have people ask her more questions and stare at her like…like…
Like a Human.
They were all over the place. Well, not all over, and in fact, there were very few Humans in actuality—perhaps one Human for every four hundred nonhumans, so the odds of seeing any were remote. But to Erin, seeingone Human was enough to make her stop in her tracks.
Two men, a tough-looking adventurer guy in his mid-twenties and a paunchier, richer-dressed merchant, were sitting at an outdoor tavern of some kind, talking to each other. Erin wasn’t sure whether to call it a restaurant. She hesitated and then wandered over, unable to keep away.
“Uh, hi there.”
The adventurer and the [Merchant] looked up. They seemed annoyed to be interrupted, but their expressions cleared as they saw Erin. The man who’d been loading up his wagon smiled genially.
“Oh—hello! Can we help you, miss?”
“I’m sorry to interrupt. It’s just—I haven’t seen any Humans in a while.”
The [Merchant] raised his eyebrows.
“It’s a surprise to see anyone but an adventurer or a fellow [Trader] in Liscor. You’re a native here?”
“Something like that. I thought I was the only Human around here, but suddenly…here you all are.”
“Ah, well, I’m headed past here, south. On business—Merchant Goeln, a pleasure. Goeln’s Caravans. But I had to see these new ruins before I went off.”
The adventurer stood up and held out his hands.
“Cervial Dermondy, adventurer. Captain of the Flawless Flights, a Silver-rank team. I’m a [Ranger] by trade, scouting out these new ruins that were just discovered. Pleased to meet you, Miss…?”
“Erin Solstice, um, [Innkeeper]. Mind…mind if I sit?”
“Oh, of course.”
The merchant moved his chair, and the adventurer pulled one close so Erin could sit down. Before she knew it, the merchant had ordered her a drink and they were talking. At first, Erin was surprised, but she fell into the conversation easily. It was just like talking to someone back from her world.
It was sonormal Erin could have wept.
Cervial and Goeln had been talking about their grievances with travelling so far to get to Liscor. It seemed everything from wagons breaking down to people getting lost had plagued their caravan, and they’d also found almost all of the inns in the city crowded to the rafters, much to their displeasure.
“It’s nice to know that there are some Humans living around here. I’ve been dealing with stubborn Gnolls and haughty Drakes all day.”
The [Merchant] smiled at Erin while he made a face at the non-Humans passing by on the street. Erin sipped the lukewarm beverage from her mug and made a polite noise to agree with him. The adventurer nodded, chomping down on a baked potato filled with spices.
“I swear, they’ve raised prices just because they knew we were coming. No love towards us Humans, and the local Watch has been picking fights with the adventurers all week. To make matters worse, it seems there’s a Human [Thief] that came in with one of the caravans.”
“Really?”
Erin hadn’t heard anything about that. But then she’d been—busy the last few days. The merchant shook his head and made a noise of disgust.
“Of course, it could be a local Drake or Gnoll, but of course, we Humans get the blame until the culprit is found. Lousy lizards and their damn suspicions.”
Erin blinked at the merchant, but the adventurer was nodding in agreement. She changed the subject quickly.
“Hey, do you know anything about that new adventurer? Gazi?”
Two blank faces were her answer. Erin tried to elaborate.
“She was getting a lot of attention this morning. She’s, um, she lookssort of Human, but she’s got one big eye in her head and four small ones…”
“A Gazer? Gazi? Do you mean…Gazi the Omniscient?”
The ball dropped, and then the [Merchant] and adventurer were giving Erin a look as if she had just sprouted wings.
Erin shrugged.
“She’s a famous adventurer, but that’s all I know—”
“Gazi the Omniscient is in Liscor? I thought I saw a Gazer, but I didn’t dare believe it was her—dead gods, and I missed her?”
Goeln leapt out of his chair. Cervial’s mouth was open so wide he could have inhaled an Acid Fly. Ten of them.
“Adventurer Gazi? I almost missed—did you call her ‘Gazi’?”
“Well, yeah—”
“Put some respect on hername! Adventurer Gazi at least—she’s a Named-rank adventurer!”
Cervial looked so horrified Erin began to get a sense that maybe she had been way too informal with the woman. She gulped.
“I, uh…yeah. She’s here, and I met her on the road. Long story. Is it—is it bad I invited her to my inn?”
The two men were practically about to run off to find Gazi, but they turned back at Erin’s words.
“You have an inn? Here? Really?”
Goeln was incredulous. Erin nodded.
“Yep. Well, it’s small, and I just started—it’s just a few miles outside the city.”
“Really?”
Both men leaned over the table. Goeln gave Erin a smile in return.
“If you’ve got room in your inn, I’d be glad to pay for lodging. It’d be a nice change to see some Human faces rather than all the scales and fur around here. Not to mention thesmell! All these non-Humans really don’t know how to wash properly, do they?”
Erin’s smile froze on her face as she stared at the [Merchant]. He hadn’t even tried to lower his voice. She sensed rather than saw the other Drakes sitting at nearby tables slowly glance over at her and the other two Humans. They didn’t seem to notice, nor had Cervial done more than glance at his companion—he hadn’t said a word. Neither had Erin but…
The adventurer coughed into one fist.
“I’d love rooms too; my team’s just here for reconnaissance, but if we come back, a good, friendly inn would be lovely.”
“Oh. Um, well…I’d love to have you over. But, ah—the upper floors are still under repairs, I’m afraid.”
Both looked disappointed.
“What was the problem? If it’s simple repairs, I could introduce you to some skilled craftsmen…”
Erin waved her hands quickly.
“No—no need. I’m working on it. It’s just that we had a very bad incident with disappearing skeletons. And—I should get back there to make sure more aren’t missing.”
Hastily, Erin got up and excused herself. The adventurer and merchant bade her farewell and stared after the young woman as she disappeared into the crowd. When she was gone, they exchanged a look. The [Merchant] took a long draft from the fresh mug the Drake had served him and grimaced. Like everything in the city, he could swear the ale they served him was the lowest gutter-scrapings.
“Disappearing skeletons…?”
——
Far below the surface of Liscor, or at least as far as the Antinium were allowed to dig by their contract with the city, the Queen listened to a report. She was not happy.
“Humans in Liscor? They come seeking the ruins, no doubt, to unearth treasures and seek their fortunes. Good. As for Gazi the Omniscient…she is dangerous. But not a threat to the Hives. She may still be a forerunner of what we desire. Post Listeners on her, but do not gainsay her in any way.”
The Antinium addressing her bowed his head crisply. He was perfectly balanced upon one knee as he faced his ruler.
“Yes, my Queen.”
She waved a feeler at him.
“Such matters are inconvenient, especially at a time like this. Deal with the Council until I have finished. I must not be disturbed at any cost. To complete the project so quickly necessitates all of my attention. Is that clear?”
“Entirely, my Queen. I will handle all of your affairs with those not of the Hive.”
“Good. And investigate the Aberration while you are upon the surface. If he is truly Individual, I would speak to him afterwards. If he is not—”
The Antinium touched the blades at his sides. The Soldier Antinium standing guard made no move despite his proximity to their Queen.
“I will dispose of any Aberrations I find, my Queen. Worry not.”
“I will place my trust in you. Go, then, my Prognugator.”
The Antinium bowed and stood. He whirled, and the twin swords at his waist moved smoothly with him as he walked upwards towards the surface. His Queen’s voice rumbled through the cavernous tunnels after him.
“Go. Ensure thatHuman does not bring about further ruin. Protect the Hive and carry out my will. Go and do this in my name…”
The Queen paused, and then her mandibles clicked softly.
“Ksmvr.”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T03:16:22)
Go. Ensure that Author does not bring about further ruin. Protect the Story and carry out my will. Go and leave a typo here.
Grault (2023-03-17T18:07:20)
“Ksmvr.”
Kiss-mover. If your name doesn’t have any vowels, that just means I have to figure out where to put them, and I can havefun with that.
Ryuuku (2023-03-23T00:12:19)
Hey, put some respect on his name!Kismavir, I rendered it, but Kiss-Mover sounds like could be a cool title.
Kris (2023-03-24T19:40:57)
For me it’s more ofKismver.
HK-42 (2023-03-28T15:47:26)
“which wasn’t usual,”
”which wasn’t unusual,” might have been intended here
spagett (2023-10-23T04:59:05)
That’s how I’ve always read it.
marine (2023-10-25T17:34:31)
Kus?mver
Frickative (2023-11-06T16:47:53)
I just read the Antinium names as if they’re pronounced with syllabic consonants and there are no vowel sounds:
Klbkch [?k???b.k?t??]
Ksmvr [ks??.vr?]
Bookwyrm (2024-08-15T20:01:43)
“He was one ofa few Humans who came to Liscor, and they were all traders, travellers, or adventurers.”
-> “He was one ofthe few Humans who came to Liscor, and they were all traders, travellers, or adventurers.”
Bookwyrm (2024-08-15T20:13:47)
“She had a feeling that around 10% of the excitement was due to the dead spider corpses packed in the cart, but the other 90% was definitely Gazi.”
-> “She had a feeling that around 10% of the excitement was due to the dead spider corpses packed in the cart while the other 90% was definitely Gazi.”
AbraCadaver (2024-10-10T10:32:16)
Dam. Queenie still hasn’t found out Erin’s making her big quest succeed, huh?
Geoffrey (2024-11-03T14:50:50)
“He was still missing Relc,”
-> “He was still missing Klbkch,”
Crimmy (2024-11-12T01:01:13)
Erin seemed extra slow in this chapter. It took a frantic Selys, a crowd of gaping onlookers, and then finally a human Trader’s explanation to get it into her head that Gazi’s kind of a big deal. Just seemed a little Idiot Ball-y.
Night Owl (2025-02-11T17:34:05)
Ksmvr ??? the bait was unhinged I thought my boy was back lol
Rain (2025-12-13T14:32:10)
New reader here: spent a bit of time ironing out a comfy way to say that and landed on an approcimation of “simver” but the Ks is pronounced similar to how you say the “ts” in Tsunami. Not totally silent but quick. Ksmvr -> Ksimver
(I read Klbch as “kEElb-kitch” previously so I think it tracks similar conventions)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.38
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-38/

Erin walked down the street, and she felt like sighing. No—she felt like her entire existence was a long, slow sigh.
She was tired. Tired and weary in her very bones. But more than that, she was just disappointed. And that was the worst feeling of all.
Humans.
She’d missed them. Really, she had. She’d missed her friends and being back in her home. She even missed the way people said hello as you walked into the supermarket. And she’d been missing all of that so hard that she’d forgotten how nasty people could be.
They didn’t like Drakes or Gnolls. Humans. And now that Erin knew that and heard the way Cervial and Goeln talked about Drakes and Gnolls—or at least Goeln—she understood why the feeling was mutual.
It was pretty rude to insult an entire species in their own city. Erin wasn’t too sure about much when it came to talking about race, but she was sure of that.
Erin scuffed along Market Street. She wasn’t sure she wanted to buy anything, but she didn’t want to leave the city just yet. Not because she had anything to do here—it was just that the trek back to her inn was too much for her at the moment.
Politeness. It was only right to be polite. And that went double for judging an entire species just because you didn’t like theirsmell. Sure, Gnolls could be prickly, but they could also be really nice. The same went for Drakes.
“There she is! There’s the [Thief]!”
Then again, there were jerks in every species.
Erin turned around at the voice. It was a familiar voice that set her teeth on edge and made her check her money pouch. Not just because of the thief comment.
Approaching at a high-speed strut down the street was a Drake shopkeeper. Erin’s eyes narrowed as he barged up to her and began shouting.
“I know it was you! You couldn’t resist attacking an honest merchant, and you decide to have a bit of revenge, eh?”
“What?”
Erin blinked at the Drake. He was visibly red with rage. He jabbed at her with a finger, and she stepped back.
“Enough!”
Another Drake pushed his way through the crowd. This one was a Guardsman, and he was visibly harried. He interposed himself between the shopkeeper and Erin.
“Lism, I’ve told you before. You can’t just start accusing Humans at random!”
“Ah, but this one is different!”
Lism the shopkeeper pointed at Erin around the guard and raised his voice so more people could hear.
“This is the Human who robbed me of my merchandise! She also cheated at the chess game with my nephew, I’ve no doubt! She’s been nothing but trouble since she entered the city, and now she’s stealing from honest folk trying to make a living!”
What was it about Erin and trouble? It seemed it followed her wherever she went. Erin gritted her teeth.
“I didn’tsteal anything. I haven’t even been in the city—”
“Miss, please.”
The guardsman cut her off. He gently moved Lism back.
“I’ll look into your claims, sir, but I can’t make any arrests. Unless you have proof—”
“Hey, I said I didn’tsteal anything!”
“Hah! Another Human lie!”
Lism jabbed a claw at Erin again, despite the guard’s best attempts to move them apart. Now, Erin was getting mad. She opened her mouth and clenched her fists.
“I was out of the city all day! I have proof!”
“Well—”
The shopkeeper hesitated, but now he was too far in to back down.
“Itcould have been her. You know how Humans get! They’re always sneaking around, going where they’re not wanted.”
“We’ll investigate your claims. Just please move back—”
“You can’t trust her word! Get a truth stone! All of these Humans have caused nothing but trouble since they got here! First, they start stealing, and then what? They’ll take our jobs, attack us on the streets—”
“Please! Move back!”
The guard finally managed to pull the enraged shopkeeper away from Erin. He struggled and hollered, but eventually, he let himself be led away. He still shot venomous glances over his shoulder at Erin, which she returned in kind.
That was unpleasant. Erin was just about to leave before the jerk came back and shouted some more when the [Guard] returned.
“Miss?”
“Oh, hi. Thanks for getting rid of him for me. Was he mad about someone stealing his stuff?”
The Drake nodded. He looked out of sorts and tired.
“There have been a number of petty thefts across the city. Shopkeeper Lism was the latest one to be stolen from.”
“Well…I’m sorry about that. Good luck finding the criminal.”
Erin tried to excuse herself, but the guardsman shook his head.
“I’m sorry, Miss, but I’m afraid I’ll have to investigate his claims. If you’ll follow me, I’ll take a statement from you. Just with a truth spell. I’ll also need proof that you were out of the city this morning.”
“What?”
“It’s standard procedure—”
“But I—he—he’s just mad because I beat him at a game of chess! Or—I beat his nephew and—look, I didn’tdo anything.”
The guardsman sighed wearily and raised his hands.
“I understand, Miss, but I have to investigate all leads. Please, this won’t take too long…”
Erin looked around helplessly. This wasn’tfair. But who could help her? The other Drakes and Gnolls, well, some of them looked indifferent, others even sympathetic. But some of them were eying her. And none of them would help. What could they do?
A lot, if one of the people in the crowd was a certain female Gnoll who pushed her way through the throng and marched up to the guardsman. He visibly wilted as Krshia, shopkeeper, Gnoll, and currently Erin’s number one hero folded her arms.
“What are you doing, if I may ask, guardsman? I hear you are taking an innocent Human away on the word of a petty shopkeeper. But that would be wrong, yes?”
The guardsman backed up two steps from the angry Gnoll. He wasn’t a small Drake, but Krshia was big even for a Gnoll, and a few more Gnolls in the crowd were drifting her way.
“Look, Mistress Krshia, I’m just investigating—”
“I heard.”
Krshia sniffed and glanced down the street. Lism, the shopkeeper, ducked back into his stall as she glared in his direction.
“Lism, the sheddings that he is, talks too much and lies when he knows nothing. Someone broke into his stall, but he saw nothing, heard nothing. But he claims it was a girl who bested him out of spite. And you would bother her without evidence?”
“That’s not—I’m just doing my job. It’s just a truth spell to make sure she’s innocent. In fact, she can rely on that as proof.”
That made sense, and Erin felt it was sorta reasonable, but Krshia’s eyes narrowed.
“This does make sense—if you had any reason to suspect Miss Solstice. But all you have is Lism’s unfounded claims. She was outside the city most of the day—your colleagues can surely attest to her being at the gates, yes? Why waste truth spells on her? This seems close to harassing her for being aHuman…much like one might question a Gnoll who was anywhere near a crime being committed in another city. But Liscor is not like other Drake cities, no?”
“I—”
The guardsman was torn between duty and not wanting to deal with anything remotely approaching the trouble written on Krshia’s face. He hesitated and then decided as several Gnolls casually walked out of the crowd and joined Krshia. They stood behind her and Erin, not looming but certainly projecting an aura.
“I believe I’ll continue my investigations into the break-in separately. And confirm with the Watch at the gates before I take up Miss Solstice’s valuable time.”
Krshia smiled coldly.
“Yes, that is wise.”
“Well then.”
The guardsman backed off fast. Erin blinked, still confused by what had just happened. The entire moment—well she was grateful for Krshia obviously—but it struck her as slightly wrong that the local law enforcement would back down to a bunch of civilians.
Then again, when the civilians in question were Gnolls, Erin could see why. Even at their best, they did give off a much more…bestial feel than the Drakes. It wasn’t that Erin expected them to lose their tempers, but she also wouldn’t be too surprised if they did. That kind of feeling.
Krshia smiled down at Erin as the other Gnolls around her muttered or barked to her. She growled something back to them, and they walked back into the flow of the crowd.
“Erin Solstice. I have been looking for you. And it is good that I found you just now, yes?”
“Yes. Thanks for that, Krshia. I didn’t know what to do, and that shopkeeper guy—”
Krshia narrowed her eyes and snorted.
“Lism. He causes trouble, yes? Even though you bested him fairly and his nephew is most admiring of you. But enough—I will make sure he causes no trouble. I wish to speak with you.”
“Um, okay? About what? The thief?”
Krshia flicked her fingers.
“Pshaw. It is a cowardly thing that hides and steals from us on Market Street and elsewhere. No one knows if it is Human or another, but the thefts are small. Low-level. No, I do not worry about such a [Thief]. I wish to speak with you privately. I invite you to my home for food and drink.”
Again, Erin hesitated. She was grateful but—
“Um, does it have to be now? I’m really beat, Krshia. I could use a nap—”
“I have a bed in my home too. You may use it and rest if you wish. Come.”
Gnolls were pushy. Or maybe it was just Krshia. But Erin found herself being dragged down the street before she quite knew what was happening.
“Look, I’m grateful, really, but this isn’t a good time. I just had to deal with some evil spiders and—”
“Erin!”
Krshia ignored Erin and the person calling her name. She marched through the crowd at speed.
“If we wait for a good time, we will never have time. Come, my home is not far.”
“Erin! Erin Solstice!”
Krshia visibly sighed, and her earstwitched as the mysterious name-caller drew closer. She halted in the street, and Erin finally managed to extract her hand from the Gnoll’s huge paw. She turned and saw another Drake heading her way.
“Olesm?”
The smaller, younger Drake stopped in front of Erin and Krshia, panting. He was clutching a piece of parchment and a quill and inkpot of all things. For a second, Erin was struck by the sheer inconvenience of not having pens in this world, but then Olesm shoved the paper into her face.
“Take a look at this, Erin! I just received this, and it’s the mostfascinating thing ever! A new way to play chess!”
Erin blinked, but then the paper disappeared as Krshia gently but firmly pulled Olesm away.
“Most interesting, but Erin Solstice is busy. I will talk with her, and you will find her later, yes?”
She wanted to pull Erin away, but to the Gnoll’s dismay, Erin was already standing next to Olesm.
“What was that about a new way to play chess?”
This time, Krshia groaned, but Erin was already staring at the piece of paper Olesm was eagerly waving about. She tried one last attempt.
“There is time to play such games later, yes? Erin—”
But by that point, Erin and Olesm were already engrossed. Krshia’s earstwitched again, but there was nothing she could do.
“Just look at this, Erin!”
“I will if you stop moving. What is it?”
Erin snatched the paper from Olesm’s claw and stared at it. Well, it was a piece of paper. And on that paper was an inked…illustration? Erin frowned, but then she got it. It was chess. Someone had drawn a chess board on the piece of paper.
She stared down at a picture—or rather, a drawing of a chess board. Someone had taken the time to draw out the grid and then illustrate—in quite fine detail—each piece on the imaginary board. She stared down at a white king piece, a queen piece in the corner, a knight and a pawn caught in the middle of a game against two black pawn pieces, two rooks, and naturally, a king piece hiding in behind the pawns in the upper left-hand corner.
Olesm hovered over Erin’s shoulder, chattering into her ear.
“I just received a long-distance delivery that went out to all the known [Tacticians] and chess players on the continent! From theTitan of Baleros! Okay, his Great Company, the Forgotten Wing. On Baleros? He can definitely afford it. It was this paper—and it’s a challenge, see? You have to—”
“Solve it in five moves?”
“How’d you know?”
Olesm stared at Erin. She pointed.
“It’s written right here. And white moves first.”
“Yes, isn’t it amazing? I would never have thought of that—but someone’s come up with a way to play chess across long distances without a spell! But this isn’t a game at all—”
“Oh, I know. It’s a chess puzzle.”
Olesm visibly deflated.
“You know what it is? But of course—how silly of me.”
Krshia walked over to stare at the chess boards. She squinted down at the paper and frowned at the pieces.
“I fail to understand this—puzzle. Why has someone sent it to you, Olesm?”
“It’s more like a challenge to anyone.”
Erin explained absently as she stared at the chess pieces.
“It’s a challenge or a problem for players. You have to find a way to win the game in a certain number of moves. It helps people learn to play chess, and this way, you can write it down.”
Olesm nodded eagerly. He pointed to the paper.
“In this case, the solution is to checkmate the black king, but I haven’t been able to figure it out yet. I imagine most of the players across the continent are trying to figure it out. It might take some time, but I hope to be one of the first to figure—”
Erin was still staring at the paper. She blinked, frowned, and then snapped her fingers. Both Krshia and Olesm jumped.
“Hm~! Got it!”
Erin smiled and flicked the chess puzzle with one hand.
“Done and done!”
“What?”
Olesm froze and stared at Erin. She grinned at him.
“You—you finished it? Just like that?”
“Yep. It wasn’t too bad a problem. But I’ve seen several like it, so…”
Krshia glanced sympathetically at Olesm. The poor Drake stared at Erin and then down at the chess puzzle.
“—I would deeply love to know how you solved it so quickly. But I should—yes, I should solve it on my own. Shouldn’t I?”
He looked longingly at the piece of parchment Erin was holding. She grinned and folded it up.
“You should. It will help you in the long run. Don’t feel bad—I just happened to know how that particular problem goes. But it was quite fun.”
“Fun.”
Olesm repeated the word. He looked down at the paper.
“I’ve been wrestling with this problem for an hour. But—of course with someone of your level I shouldn’t expect this to faze you. Of course.”
“Do you have any more?”
Olesm shook his head. He accepted the piece of parchment back from Erin.
“This was the first—I mean, I suppose we might expect more of the same in the future, wouldn’t we? This puzzle was sent to countless cities. From the Titan. To find good opponents, I bet, and promote his game. I wouldn’t be surprised if more appear soon.”
Erin nodded.
“Oh, you mean sort of like a magazine, right? Or a newspaper?”
“A what?”
Both Krshia and Olesm looked at Erin blankly. She tried to explain. Olesm nodded his head uncertainly.
“Yes—yes, that sounds about right.”
“I’m just surprised. I thought sending stuff was supposed to be costly.”
Olesm shook his head.
“It’s notthat expensive, especially if you send it with the slower deliveries.”
“Slower deliveries…?”
The Drake nodded. He gestured to the parchment in his hand.
“This was sent via magic. The Mage’s Guild can print images as well as text—but it’sextremely expensive. If it was a letter…again, the Titan can definitely afford magic, but a letter’s a fraction of the cost. And slower. Heck, you don’t even need the Runner’s Guild. You see, Runners deliver things quickly, but merchants and caravans and even ship captains will pass on long-distance deliveries for a very small fee.”
Erin frowned. She sort of got it. It was like snail mail by boat versus sending stuff by plane. And [Message] spells? That sounded like emails! But part of the process still confused her.
“How does that work if you trade the letter more than once? Do you pay the first guy a lot and have him give the money to the next person? That sounds risky.”
Olesm scratched at his scales as he tried to explain.
“It’s more like—well, I suppose you could call the letters a form of currency. Travellers will buy them for a few coins and complete the delivery in hopes of earning more when they sell them later or deliver them to their owner. Really, the Runner’s Guild is far more reliable but expensive.”
“Oh. So it’s sort of a gamble.”
“Exactly, but it’s fairly certain that the letter will get to your destination in the end. Of course, sending something private is a bad idea, but you can send a message to another continent for only a copper coin or two. It might take a month or two, but itwill get there.”
Erin nodded. It all made sense. And it reminded her of—well, it reminded her of the post office in a way. Just without stamps. It was useful, it really was.
It was just that she was dreaming of email, the internet, and being able to call her family in two seconds at that moment. So she wasn’t that impressed, even though she was really trying to be.
“I wonder—do you think I could send the answer to the person who sent you the puzzle?”
Olesm hesitated.
“I don’t see why not. I mean, I won’t get in touch with theTitan, just his company. And it costs a bit, but it’s only a few silver for a [Message] spell…I bet he’ll check for answers soon, but not within an hour of sending the puzzle!”
It seemed pricier than he wanted, but Erin was getting excited. And so was Olesm at the thought of contacting and impressing this Titan. Was he actually that big?
“I can write down the answer. Do you have any paper…?”
“Write it down here. I won’t look.”
Olesm handed Erin another piece of parchment and averted his eyes as she scribbled on it. She handed it back to him folded up.
“Okay, so you send it to this person. And then this person will send me something harder?”
“Perhaps. Or perhaps they might wait until others have sent in their reply. It could take a few weeks or up to a month for a new puzzle.”
“Aw. That’s a long time.”
“But it’s so fascinating to play games across such a long distance, isn’t it?”
Erin tried to find the enthusiasm Olesm was giving off, but the truth was this revolutionary idea was small potatoes in her world. She sighed, but then she had a thought.
“I’ve got a better idea. Here, give me the paper back.”
She took the pen and dipped it in the ink pot Olesm held out.
“They sent me a puzzle, so I can send one back. Let’s see how they likethis.”
Erin drew out a chess board with every piece in the starting position. She wasn’t an artist, but she did the best she could. Then she wrote in the upper left hand corner:
‘Black side will mirror white side’s every move. Force checkmate in 4 moves.’
“It’s a bit elementary, but it should be a good challenge for a beginner. Youcan send this via letter, if not a [Message] spell thingy?”
She showed it to Olesm and Krshia. Olesm frowned at the paper while Krshia shook her head in confusion, but then he smiled.
“I’m definitelynot paying for [Messaging] an image. But I could probably send a letter via one of the bulk deliveries! What a fun puzzle! Wait…ah. I actually know this one.”
Olesm perked right back up and puffed his chest out proudly. Erin’s smile turned upside-down.
“Wait, what?”
“Several new players like to challenge me this way. So I grew quite adept at beating them. It is quite a simple solution as I’m sure you know. If you move the queen like so—”
Erin scowled and snatched the parchment back.
“Give me that.”
She flipped it over and began writing furiously on the backside. Olesm blinked, and Krshia grinned in amusement. When Erin showed Olesm the new problem, he blinked.
“That’s a—a lot of pieces.”
“Checkmate in four moves. Black moves first.”
Erin grinned evilly at Olesm.
“Four moves?”
He goggled at the paper. Erin had heard of goggling, but she’d never seen someone actually do it.
“No. That’s impossible. But—no, it shouldn’t be—”
He frowned, his tail lashing the ground.
“I can’t even begin to—how did you come up with this so quickly?”
“It was one of the puzzles that gave me a headache back when I was playing a lot. It took me nearly a week to figure it out.”
“I can’t—may I copy this? Please?”
“Go ahead. And if you’ll send this back to the person who sent the other puzzle—I’ll pay for delivery.”
“Oh, of course. Certainly. Um, you can give me a few silver coins and it will get there, but more money means a faster delivery. Sorry, but itis overseas. Maybe I could get someone to pay for an image-[Message]? But that’s gold. How about two silver and I’ll copy this to Baleros for a slow Runner letter—and to Pallass? Maybe someone will send it back to the Titan. They’re all rich in the Walled City. Tons of famous [Strategists]. Heck, the Cyclops of Pallass lives there. Uh, the Grand Strategist of the Drakes.”
“I get it. Well, not anything of what you just said, but it’s pricey. Okay…”
Erin thought about that and dug in her money pouch. She was feeling generous, so she handed Olesm two silver coins. From what Selys had told her, she’d be rolling in bits of shiny metal soon enough.
The Drake blinked down at the coins, but accepted them and promised to send the letter as soon as he copied down Erin’s puzzle. He hurried off, leaving Krshia and Erin behind.
She smiled, wondered a bit maliciously how long it would take the mysterious chess puzzler to solve her problem, and then completely forgot about it a minute later.
Krshia was still trying to get Erin to have a meal with her, but Erin was tired, still sore, and for that matter, hungry. And despite her best wishes towards Gnolls, their food was more than a little raw by Human standards.
“Look, I’d really love to visit. And I will—how about tomorrow?”
“But today is quicker, yes?”
“Yes, but—”
Erin wavered. Krshia enticed her with promises of baked food and meat. And it would be nice, even if she had the feeling the Gnoll wanted to talk to her about something important. Maybe she could relax?
But just as she was about to leave with Krshia, someone else called out Erin’s name. This time, Krshia’s ears laid flat on her head, and she turned with a glare. But the Gnoll stopped.
Gazi Pathseeker stood behind Erin in a vortex of attention. She smiled up at Krshia, and the Gnoll stared at her. Erin blinked and sighed as the half-Gazer greeted her.
“Erin. Is now a good time?”
“I guess. Did you meet all the important people you were supposed to?”
Gazi shrugged.
“I have met with various individuals. But I am sure others will introduce themselves when they realize I am in the city. However, I wonder if I might take you up on your offer.”
“Offer? What offer?”
Erin blinked at Gazi. The adventurer smiled and waved her hand.
“You mentioned you had an inn. If you wouldn’t mind, I would very much like to see it and have a meal, if I may.”
“Oh. Of course.”
Erin glanced at Krshia.
“Sorry, Krshia. It’s just that I promised Gazi—she helped me out earlier today. You don’t mind…?”
Krshia stood stock still and waved a hand silently at Erin. Gazi smiled in the Gnoll’s direction.
“Thank you, Shopkeeper Krshia. I apologize for my rudeness.”
The Gnoll murmured something, but Erin was already leading Gazi away. Krshia stared at the adventurer’s back and then shook her head. She turned, grabbed the nearest Gnoll, and began speaking quickly with him. She kept casting glances at Gazi’s back the entire time the adventurer was walking away. She hadn’t dared meet the half-Gazer’s eyes, and even now, Krshia’s hair was puffed out.
She watched Gazi, but Krshia had no idea—or perhaps she did—that she was being watched right back.
——
Erin stared in horrified fascination as one of Gazi’s eyeballs slowly rotated to face forwards in her head as the two walked down the street. Apparently, Gazers had 360° vision, which was awesome and incredibly disturbing.
She talked to Gazi while the female adventurer’s eyes roamed. She kept her big eye focused on Erin as she walked—out of politeness, Erin guessed, but her other four eyes were all moving in other directions. In fact, it was quite disturbing how Gazi’s big eye didn’t move away from Erin the entire time. Since she had other eyes, she could focus entirely on Erin even while avoiding other pedestrians.
Not that there were any to get in her or Erin’s way. The other people on the street either knew Gazi or didn’t want to walk in front of the adventurer. She was still dressed like a warrior, and even if her armor looked rusty, she seemed like serious business.
All in all—no, Erin wasn’t going to think it. But she couldn’t help it. It really felt like she was talking to a female version of Mad Eye Moody, as wrong as that sounded. A lot less grumpy and with more than one crazy eyeball, but the thought was in her head, and she couldn’t shake it.
And like the Harry Potter characters, Gazi seemed to be a sinkhole for attention. So much so that Erin felt uncomfortable as the two walked down the street towards the gates. She was used to scrutiny, but this time, the Drakes and Gnolls weren’t even bothering to hide their stares. And sure, most were staring at Gazi, but a lot of them were also staring at the weird Human talking to her.
“You’re really that famous, huh?”
Gazi shrugged, and the armor on her shoulders rolled back.
“Some might say so. I apologize if the attention bothers you. Do you dislike such things?”
“Dunno. I’ve never been famous—or popular.”
Gazi nodded.
“I believe I am more infamous than famous.”
“I’ve never been that either.”
“I believe the difference between the two is quite minute in some senses. In others however—well, suffice it to say I appreciate staring as opposed to other reactions. Some cities would not let me past the gates—or even in range of the walls. Nor will I blame them for that.”
“Right, right. I get you. I think.”
Erin and Gazi stopped at a crowded intersection. Today seemed like a weekend—not that Erin had a good grasp of the week days in this world. She spotted several families out and about, which meant that they’d entered a residential district. She seldom went there, so the sight of children was—
They were so small. Andcute! Well, the Gnoll kids reminded Erin of vicious puppies, but the small Drakes were terrifyingly cute. They ran about like normal kids, dragging their shorter tails about as they scuffled, played…did all the things normal kids did, really.
As they caught sight of Erin and Gazi, some of the adults stared. But a gang of Drakes and a few Gnolls pointed at Erin instead. One of the children ran up to the two and then away. It was a boy Drake—at least, she thought it was.
That was charming, especially the way the group of kids was clearly fascinated with her. Erin was smiling—until she saw the parents.
Two Drakes, both with lighter blue scales, watched their offspring run about with his friends with affectionate interest. He ran up to her, and his parents called out, not wanting him to bother Erin. She was caught by the moment and the thought struck her before she could banish it.
Mother, father, and child.
Her smile flickered and vanished. But then Erin put it back on her face. She bent down towards the young Drake, not looking towards either of the parents.
“Hi there!”
Erin smiled at the Drake child. He immediately took a step back, but the other children pushed him forward.
“Can I ask you something?”
The boy Drake’s parents waved at him, telling him not to bother the Human. But Erin smiled. She forced the smile, but it was a smile.
“Go on, I don’t mind. Ask me any question you want.”
The Drake grinned up at her. He hadvery sharp teeth. But it was still an innocent smile. A mischievous smile, too.
“Can you really shoot blood out of your—”
——
Pisces was sitting at a table in The Wandering Inn, sipping from a mug at his leisure as he put his feet up on one table. At his side, he’d dragged over another table and organized a smorgasbord of cheese, meats, bread, and some sweet pastries Erin had bought for herself last time she’d been in the city.
He jumped as the door to the inn smashed open, and Erin stormed in. She was wearing a terrific frown on her face, which contrasted sharply with the amusement on the face of the half-Gazer who followed her in.
She didn’t even have to say anything. One look and Pisces’ feet came off the table, and he began industriously polishing the wood with his considerably dirtier robe.
“Greetings, Mistress Solstice. Ah, are you well?”
Erin stood in the center of the room and glared at everything and nothing.
“I hate kids. I hate Drakes, and I hate people who don’t understand anything about female anatomy.”
That last comment was accompanied by a glare for Pisces. He opened his mouth to protest and then wisely shut up.
“In case anyone’s wondering, Icannot shoot blood out of my crotch.”
“I did not wonder. But it was quite amusing to see your reaction when the child asked you the question.”
Erin glared over her shoulder at the adventurer. Pisces eyed her. There was something familiar—well, unfamiliar, really. He had never seen a Gazer of Baleros. Obviously, he knew the species, but there was only one famous member of them he knew by name.
…It wasn’t her. Obviously. Erin hadn’t mentioned a name when she wandered into the inn with her guest, but it wasn’ther. That would be unbelievable. Pisces was keeping his ear out for a name as Erin ranted. Just because it couldn’t be her.
“Whoasks that? Honestly!”
The adventurer shrugged. She was looking around the inn—with more than one eye? Pisces’ brows snapped together as he stared at her.
“Is it strange that other species do not know much about Human reproduction?”
“Yes! No! I just—”
Erin threw up her hands.
“Forget it. This is my inn. I’ll get you some food. You can take a seat. Watch out for Pisces, the jerk over there. He steals stuff. Likemy food.”
She glared at the half-eaten pastries on Pisces’ table, and the mage flinched. Then she stomped into the kitchen, leaving him alone with…with…
As the adventurer took a table near him, Pisces’ eyes widened as he noticed her armor and sword. Her armor didn’t look magical to him—which had made him certain itwasn’t her and she was some other Gazer. But that sword…
A claymore.And she was sitting there and staring at him…and now Pisces began to sweat. There was no way. There was no way one of the King’s Seven was in this inn.
Staring at him.
If Pisces had been eating food, he would have choked on it. If he’d been drinking, he probably would have sprayed it out his mouth and nose. Since he wasn’t doing either, he just stared, wide-eyed, at Gazi.
She smiled at him. And as the last voices of denial tried to obfuscate the truth from his panicking mind, the Named-rank adventurer looked him in the eyes and said the most robe-wetting thing Pisces could imagine.
“Greetings, [Necromancer].”
——
Erin rattled around in her kitchen, searching for something to serve up. She put a pot of pasta on the stove, poured out some blue juice—which Pisces had also helped himself to—and sliced up some bread with cheese and sausage. She realized she had no idea what Gazi or her kind ate, but she took it out anyways.
Pisces was sitting in his seat, looking meeker than Erin had ever seen him as he chatted with Gazi. Well, it was more like her asking questions and him replying quickly and nervously. Every few seconds, he would duck his head as if bowing.
Another person who recognized the famed adventurer.
“Here you go.”
Erin put the appetizers in front of Gazi.
“Let me know if there’s anything you want or can’t eat. Also, this is blue juice. It’s…it’s blue. But it tastes sweet.”
“This looks delightful. Thank you for allowing me to impose.”
“No problem. I rarely get visitors—”
Erin stopped as the door opened.
“I rarely get visitors.”
She was expecting the Goblins to enter or perhaps Olesm or even Pawn and some Workers. But instead the last person she expected walked in.
Relc.
He grinned at her and sauntered into the inn, spear over one shoulder. And he wasn’t alone. Four more Drakes—all guardsmen by the look of them—entered the inn, looking around warily.
Erin wasn’t sure what to say. She stared at Relc. The Drake met her eyes and then looked away.
“Hi, Relc.”
“Miss Erin. How’re you doing?”
“Good. Um. You brought friends?”
“For a meal. Mind putting something on for us? I’m hungry.”
“Of—of course.”
Flustered, Erin retreated into the kitchen to double up on her dinner preparations. She reemerged to find Relc and his friends sitting close to Gazi. Since she’d chosen to sit next to Pisces, there was an odd triangle in the center of her inn.
There was also dead silence. Awkwardly, Erin put out drinks and appetizers for the guardsmen and Relc. The other Drakes accepted her drinks and stared at the blue juice warily, but they were polite. Relc, on the other hand, was boisterous and noisy, thanking her and gulping down the juice quickly. He looked everywhere—except at her and Gazi, that was.
That was Erin’s first clue, but she was so busy running around the inn that she didn’t pick up on it. But as she began draining boiled noodles and mixing it with sautéed onions, she heard Relc get up and walk over to Gazi.
“So. You’re the famous adventurer entering our small city. Nice to meet you.”
Erin peeked her head out of the kitchen just in time to see Relc leaning over the table. He stuck out one massive hand.
“I’m Relc. A Senior Guardsman here in Liscor.”
Was it just her or was Relc…bigger than before? But Gazi just smiled up at him and shook his hand with her gauntleted one. She saw the muscles in his arm tense, but Gazi didn’t even blink as she shook his hand.
“I am Gazi Pathseeker, a travelling adventurer.”
“Who?”
Half the [Guards] looked at Relc, but the Drake pretended not to have any idea who Gazi was. Then he picked at his teeth with a claw.
“Oh, right. I think I’ve heard the name before. An adventurer? That’s nice. I thought about being one, but it sounded like too much hassle.”
“The life of an adventurer is not for everyone.”
“No, there’s all the dirt and mud and monsters trying to kill you.”
“It becomes occasionally unpleasant.”
“Right, right.”
Erin didn’t need any special skills to sense the underlying tension in the air. She saw the four guardsmen Relc had brought surreptitiously eying Gazi. Meanwhile, Pisces had scooted around the edge of the table to get away from the two.
Relc paused. Then he cleared his throat and eyed Gazi.
“So…mind telling me what you’re doing inmy city? And, uh, how long you’re going to be staying around here? Not going to start a war, are you?”
Relc put a heavy emphasis onmy. And he was leaning over Gazi in a not-so-subtle way. She didn’t seem to be bothered by his looming, though.
“I am merely exploring this continent. Rest assured, I mean to cause no disruptions while I am here. Reim is far from here, and my liege sleeps.I am…peaceful.”
She said that last part with an edge that made the entire inn go silent. Everyone looked ready to change the subject, especially because Relc’s last comment had gotten on Gazi’s nerves. Her large eye had narrowed ever-so-slightly. However, the big Drake nodded agreeably, or in a way that suggested agreeability while the tone of his voice was anything but.
“That’s good. I’d hate for any of that. It seems like every other day I have to deal with uppity adventurers causing trouble. It’s because I’m the highest-level member of the Watch, you know. All the guys always call on me for help.”
“It sounds like you have quite a tough job. I am impressed.”
Gazi’s voice was getting less and less friendly, and the notes of sarcasm…well, let’s just say that Erin was sensing a lot of it in the air. Relc flexed one arm and checked his bicep.
“Yeah, well, I’m just that good. [Spearmaster], you know? One of Izril’s few.”
“Indeed? A fascinating class. I myself have killed only a few.”
The room became quieter. Relc’s gaze snapped up, and he opened his mouth—but didn’t have a ready retort. Gazi seemed content with that. Relc scratched at his scales. His tail twitched a few times on the floor.
“Funny person. Anyways. So. What I’m saying is, I’d hate for your visit to get unpleasant, understand? This isn’t a good place for you to cause any trouble like the kind you get up to on your continent. You get—”
He was leaning forwards, and Gazi’s main pupil was narrowing to a fine point of annoyance as the [Guards] looked like they were bracing for the worst—which they had come here toavoid. Pisces was opening a window and peering outside. The air was turning bad—
And then Erin tapped Relc on the back of the head with a plate full of food. Hard.
“Ow!”
He turned and glared at her. She glared back.
“Oi. Stop harassing my guest.”
Gazi blinked. Pisces turned back, incredulous, and the Senior Guardsman looked at Erin. He glared—then ducked a second tap of the plate.
“I wasn’t—”
“Stop harassing. My guest. And sit back down. The food’s ready.”
Relc glared, but then he looked at Gazi—and the tense air was lost. He opened his mouth, closed it—stared at Erin, and growled. The Drake stomped back to his table as everyonesighed in relief. Gazi smiled at Erin, amused.
“Ah. Pasta? It looks quite delicious. Thank you, Erin.”
“Yeah, looks good! Have a bite and let me know if that’s an illusion.”
Relc began digging into his food the instant Erin left it at his table. After some hesitation, the other guardsmen did as well. Their wary expressions changed, and they soon began slurping down the noodles with good humor.
Pisces glanced around. Everyone else was eating—and Erin had even brought out some food for herself. But he was notably bereft of a plate and food.
“Ah, I believe you missed someone.”
“Did I?”
Erin eyed him balefully. She quite pointedly stared at the remains of her pastries on his table.
“Too bad. I guess I only have food for paying customers.”
He smirked at her.
“As a matter of fact, I believe today is the day I will pay off my tab. I have come into quite a bit of money as of late.”
“Really?”
Erin raised a skeptical eyebrow. Pisces pulled out a bulging pouch and showed her the contents.
“If you would observe.”
She stared.
“That’s alot of gold. Hey! Did you steal that?”
Relc’s head rose, but Pisces looked insulted.
“Not at all. I merely performed a complex bit of magic and received remuneration. But I believe this is more than enough to pay off my tab many times over. Allow me to repay my debts in full and tip you for your time.”
He reached a hand into the pouch, but before he could take any gold out, the bag disappeared from underneath his hand. Relc pulled it away and deposited the bag on his table.
“Yoink.”
“Hey!”
Pisces shot to his feet. He grabbed for the money, but Relc raised the bag out of arm’s reach.
“Give that back! It is my property!”
“Nope! Confiscated by the City Watch!”
“Relc!”
Erin shouted at the Drake as Pisces grew redder and redder. The mage pointed a trembling finger at Relc.
“This is an abuse of authority! You have no right to steal my property—”
Relc grinned and waggled a claw at Pisces.
“I have every right. Or did you forget—you’re still wanted for all those thefts you did earlier. Scaring people—robbing graves—all of that should be nicely covered by this donation to the city, shouldn’t it?”
Pisces turned white and then red again with outrage. He spluttered, but didn’t really have anything to respond with except unrighteous indignation. Relc laughed at the mage—until Erin punched him in the shoulder.
“Ow. Have you gotten stronger?”
“It’s a Skill. Stop bothering my customers.”
“Fine. But I’m keeping this. Necromancer Pisces will be allowed back in the city, and we won’t stab him with all his fines paid off—but I’ll be watching him.”
“This is unjust—not right—”
Pisces clenched his fists, but Erin managed to get him back to his seat. He sat there in a huff, so she got him his own plate and food to calm him down.
“Honestly. I have a new guest here. Can’t you two behave for one night?”
“I am quite enjoying the spectacle. Do not mind me.”
Relc glanced sideways at Gazi. But then he ignored her and grinned at Erin.
“Sorry, Erin. I just wanted to say hi—after so long.”
She eyed him doubtfully.
“Really?”
“Really. I saw you just this morning and thought—well, it would be nice to see a friendly Human again. I had to deal with so many rude adventuring types and annoying mages each day.”
Pisces muttered something darkly. Erin shot him a look, and he shut up.
“I saw that. You were pretty impressive out there. I didn’t know you were that good.”
Relc grinned and put his hands behind his head as he leaned back in his chair.
“I try, I try. I’m not the greatest guardsman in the city for no reason.”
The four guardsmen stopped their meal and looked up at Relc. One of them snorted.
“Greatest guardsman? Sure, one who can’t even catch a Human Runner.”
The other three chuckled. Relc thumped back down on his chair and glared at them.
“I was wearingarmor, and I had my spear, alright? She got lucky!”
Erin blinked at Relc as the other guardsmen made more jokes at his expense.
“You got outrun by a Runner?”
“She was really fast! I’ve never seen anything like it! Any other Runner I’d leave in the dust. But her—”
“Sure you didn’t lose while you were admiring her? Relc, the Gecko, lost to a mere Human. The mighty have fallen.”
“Too busy panting and not enough breathing while you were running?”
“Shut up!Don’t call me that stupid name!”
Relc glared at the two guards and threw a bit of food at them. That earned him another buffet from Erin. He glared at her, but then switched tone.
“—By the way, Miss Erin. You…wouldn’t happen to know any female Runners, would you?”
“Me?”
Erin blinked at him. Relc nodded.
“Sure, I mean, maybe, right? She was about your age.”
“What did she look like?”
This question came from Pisces. The mage was staring with some interest at Relc. The Drake frowned and shrugged awkwardly.
“She had…black hair. And she was—tall? Taller than Erin. And, uh, she was fast. Ring any bells?”
Pisces and Erin exchanged a look. Erin planted her hands on her hips.
“How am I supposed to know someone by all that?”
“Hey, I’m doing the best I can! All you Humans—you’re sort of similar. Anyways, I just thought you’d know her.”
“Because I’m Human? And all Humans know other Humans?”
Relc scratched at the side of his head.
“Um. Yeah?”
“Unbelievable.”
Erin began banging together empty dishes as she glared at Relc, and the Drake spread his claws out innocently.
“Hey, I just wondered—that isn’t the only reason I’m here! I was going to tell you about the thief in the city.”
“I alreadyknow about the thief in the city! And before you cause more trouble, it wasn’t Pisces. If he were the thief, you’d have caught him already.”
“Oh, we know that. The [Guards] would have spotted him entering the city, his stupid invisible trick or not. No, it’s probably just some Human. But I wanted to tell you to hire some protection around here. You got lucky with those Shield Spiders, but you’re not going to be lucky forever. Hire an adventurer already.”
“And pay them with what? Adventurers are expensive!”
One of the guards nodded.
“They are. Unless you know one personally, the rates they charge are far too high.”
Relc glared at the guardsman.
“Way to help, thick-tail.”
“I don’t have money for that. Unless—”
Erin reappeared in the common room. She smiled at Gazi, who was observing the argument with urbane amusement.
“Hey, Gazi, want a job? I can’t pay much, but I’ll feed you if you stay. I haven’t fixed up the rooms upstairs, but I could work on that.”
Relc, Pisces, and all four guardsmen started choking on their food. Gazi smiled and shook her head.
“As tempting as your offer is, I must refuse. But I believe you would be wise to invest in some form of defense as you are no warrior.”
“Once I have the money from the Shield Spiders I’ll see. But I’m not made of coins. I don’t have much gold.”
Pisces had been following the conversation while eating a huge helping of pasta. Now, a calculating look appeared on his face as he glanced at Erin.
“I might be able to help in that regard. Miss Erin, seeing as how my funds have been confiscated…would you accept—alternate forms of payment?”
She glared at him.
“At this point, as long as you pay mesomething I’ll be happy.”
Erin paused and hastily amended that sentence.
“But nothing icky. Or gross. Or—anything I won’t like.”
Pisces was still glaring daggers at Relc, but his eyes had lit up at Erin’s request, and he developed a knowing smile as he tapped two fingers together thoughtfully.
“I believe I have something in mind that may benefit us both.”
For some reason, that struck her as ominous—and she hoped Pisces wouldn’t cause much trouble. It was practically a given he’d cause some. Erin shook her head.
“If we’re done with talking about stuff I can’t afford—anyone hungry for something else? I have Acid Flies if you guardsmen want to try them. I know Relc eats them.”
The guardsmen exchanged a glance while Relc patted his stomach and tried to decide whether he was still hungry. Pisces hurriedly waved away the bowl Erin was offering.
Gazi raised her single eyebrow.
“Acid Flies?”
——
As Erin served food into the night, another girl pondered money and food. Unlike Erin, however, she was not immediately in possession of either.
She skulked in an alleyway, not trying to keep out of sight, but refusing to go out into the street. She wouldn’t be bothered even if she did. Some guardsmen were looking out for thieves, but they would never suspect her. Her attire, and more importantly, her bearing would immediately allay any suspicions to her guilt.
It was a shame and a disgrace, then, that she was forced to stoop to such demeaning lengths to survive. Theft was not befitting of her station, but the greedy merchants and shopkeepers were practically inviting her to take their goods. Besides, she had no coin to pay—not that she would in any case.
What was hers was hers. What was theirs was hers too, for that matter.
She’d made a mistake in travelling south. The city she wanted to travel to was Celum—not this—wherever here was. But the foolish caravanner had erred in giving her directions—she certainly hadn’t made a mistake! Now she was stranded and forced to even further depths to survive.
The girl’s stomach grumbled. She’d snatched some fruit earlier today, but the shopkeepers were on more of a lookout after a few days of her pilfering. She’d have to wait until late that night before she would be able to eat.
Soon. The girl licked her fingers and eyed the streets packed with hideous dog creatures and evil lizards. She just had to obtain enough coin, and then she would be away from this city filled with monsters. She just had to find Magnolia Reinhart, and then she would be welcomed with dignity befitting her rank and station.
Soon.
The girl’s stomach growled.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T03:22:01)
Gazi got 5 eyes and one eyebrow what the heck…
Leave a typo ?
Eric (2023-03-10T15:29:04)
I thought the thief getting Magnolia’s name wrong was intentional.
For me, it was a part of her character, in that she is so dismissive of even the humans in Izril that she can’t remember Magnolia’s family name.
Grault (2023-03-17T19:59:45)
“Give that back! It is my property!”
“Nope! Confiscated by the City Watch!”
Interesting that Erin didn’t pull jurisdiction again.
Ryuuku (2023-03-23T01:07:47)
“So…mind telling me what you’re doing inmy city?” Relc, my guy, what are you, a cop? Oh, wait…
Satan (2023-05-25T05:38:28)
I mean she might’ve ignored that because it was, after all,Pisces‘ money.
Salamander (2023-08-11T23:10:59)
I feel like Relc should’ve used some of that gold to pay for Pisces’ tab. What a jerk!
Luca (2024-02-05T00:11:41)
The Mage’s Guild can print images as well as text
If the printing press does not yet exist, perhaps they would say “The Mage’s Guild can illustrate/transcribe images”
Mr anderson (2024-09-05T01:48:35)
20 gold is probably way to much of a fine for his crime, not that I’d imagine relc cares but from what we heard he was just stealing meals and housing which would require hard work and dedication to rack up 20 gold worth
CueGert (2025-02-04T12:50:50)
More likely she wanted Pisces to actually pay for robbing people

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.41
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-41/

Erin left her inn three times over the course of the next two days. The first time she went out, she visited Selys, and the two had a long chat—lecture, really—about not going out and fighting monsters alone. Then they visited a bathhouse, helped Erin pick out more clothing, and went to see the ruins.
The ruins were about ten miles out from the city, but such was the traffic going to and from the ruins that it was easy to hitch a ride on a cart. Erin wondered why the mysterious ruins were safe to visit until Selys pointed out the countless adventurers of various levels congregating around the ruins.
There were at least a hundred mostly Human adventurers now in the city and in the makeshift tent city that had already appeared around the ruins. ‘Mostly Silver and Bronze-ranks’, according to Selys, which seemed to suggest that this wasn’t too impressive despite the numbers. But for all the shanty town’s size, it was dwarfed by the size of the excavated ruins.
They were massive. The excavation site itself was a giant pit in the ground—three times as large as a football stadium—that had unearthed a dark stone opening, a massive doorway into a crypt, or so Erin and Selys were told.
They didn’t go anywhere near the building. Few of the adventurers did either, and the [Traders] offering goods had parked their shops on the edge of the crater.
Apparently, the ruins were still filled with dirt and dried mud from years of being buried. Thus, adventurers were digging while fending off the monsters that lived within. Apparently, the place abounded with giant, burrowing rats—which Drakes didnot eat, according to Selys—various types of the undead, varieties of spiders, and other low to mid-level monsters.
That was slowing up the adventuring teams, along with the sheer size of the ruins. But the main truth of it was that none of the diggers hired wanted to dig far in case they found something, and most of the adventuring teams felt the same. True, several had found small caskets of valuables, like silver and jewels, indicating this was at least partly an old crypt, but several of the more adventurous teams had advanced further in and never come back.
Or they’d come back shuffling and moaning, trying to eat the flesh of the living.
That was the first visit, and Erin was lucky enough not to see any dead zombies—especially because she had a lovely lunch with Selys as they watched everyone mill about and not do anything much around the ruins. She attracted quite a bit of attention herself, being known as the innkeeper who slew Shield Spiders and, more notably, the Human innkeeper.
Several Human adventurers came by to talk to Erin, but didn’t get very far with Selys glaring at them. They promised to visit her inn later, a promise Erin didn’t know if they’d keep when she told them she wasn’t serving alcohol yet.
——
The next day, Erin went out and visited Selys again, only this time, it was for business. The business of being paid, to be exact.
Erin happily held up the cloth bag and shook it. It made a dull metallic sound. She frowned, but the lack of any satisfying jingle wasn’t enough to get her down.
“Money~!”
Selys smiled at Erin as she put away the signed receipt under the counter in the Adventurer’s Guild.
“Just don’t spend it all in one place, okay, Erin?”
“Sure, sure. I’ll just spend it on important stuff. Like—fancy dust rags! Or alcohol! Or…a dress?”
Selys eyed Erin sternly and shook her head.
“How about a weapon? You could probably afford a good one with that much money.”
All told, the bounty on the Shield Spiders plus the fee she earned from selling their carcasses earned Erin just over eleven gold coins, reduced some because some of the spiders had been burned too badly to use. That was generally agreed to be a lot of money, but not a lot for the bounty on the carcasses.
One of the more senior Drake adventurers not currently staring at the Ruins leaned over the desk to talk to Erin. He was friendly and yellow-scaled, and Erin couldn’t remember his name.
“You could have gotten a far better deal selling the spiders’ bodies elsewhere. Probably half again as much, especially if you went right to the right merchants. The Guild charges far too much for its service.”
Selys glared at the Drake who had spoken.
“The Guild pays a good rate for monster parts! If you’ve got a problem, Ylss, take it up with the guild master—or the council.”
Ylss flicked out his tongue dismissively.
“The Guild won’t listen, and the council won’t either. But I’ve been talking to the Human adventurers, and they say their guilds pay them far better than ours does.”
“That’s becauseHuman adventurers go out and fight monsters instead of their city Watch. If you want to negotiate prices, go slay a Shield Spider nest yourself. Erin here—”
Selys glanced around. She spotted Erin with her hand on the door.
“Erin, are you going already?”
Erin waved and smiled and opened the door before Selys asked if she wanted to stay. She did not, especially if it meant listening to another argument. Drakes were surprisingly—or was that unsurprisingly?—hot-headed.
It was time to go back to the inn before she splurged on everything. Erin only bought a few essentials from Krshia, a few more from other shops, fended off the Gnoll’s attempts to get her to have a cup of tea, and went home for lunch.
——
When Erin returned to her inn, she found it had been ransacked. She spent a few minutes staring at the trashed kitchen and her upended bags and supplies. They hadn’t ever been neatly organized in the first place, but the person—or people—who had visited her inn while she was away had tossed everything onto the floor and trampled it.
They hadn’t taken much. Erin didn’t have much. But they’d taken quite a bit of food, spilled the rest on the ground, and taken other of Erin’s vital necessities.
Like her toothbrush. When Erin realized that was gone, she finally flipped. She grabbed the bag of her money—noting that the rest of the money she’d hidden in the inn was also missing—and stormed back towards the city.
——
Selys had to half-jog to keep up with Erin as the other girl stomped through the market.
“So let me get this straight. You don’t mind monsters attacking you, but the instant someone steals from your inn, you want protection?”
Erin glared at Selys.
“Yes!”
“But they didn’t even steal anything important. Some food and a few coins—”
“One gold coin and three silver coins!”
“Why didn’t you hide it better? Or put it under lock and key?”
“I don’thave a lock. Or a key!”
“We can buy a vault or an enchanted lock and key if you want. I know a good shop—”
“No. I want a weapon.”
“Suit yourself. Here’s a good shop the adventurers talk about.”
Selys pointed, and Erin made a beeline for the store manned by a burly Gnoll. He bared his teeth at Erin and nodded silently at her.
“Erin Human. Greetings.”
“Hi there.”
Erin smiled back at the Gnoll, showing her teeth as well. It was a Gnoll thing that she had learned. Selys just nodded at the Gnoll without showing any teeth.
“I’m looking for a weapon.”
The Gnoll nodded and spread one hand to indicate his wares. Erin stared at a veritable armory of weapons on display. Most made sense to her, but only in the sense of having seen them in movies. They all looked sharp.
“For a friend of Krshia, I will do my best to oblige you, yes? Do you fight with any weapon besides your hands, Erin Solstice?”
“Um. No. No…in fact, I’ve never held anything larger than a knife.”
The Gnoll paused as he unhooked a devilish-looking scimitar from a weapon rack. He put the weapon back and nodded.
“We have many weapons for beginners and self-defense, yes? Daggers, clubs…these weapons would be best.”
Erin stared at the dagger he carefully offered her hilt-first. It looked pointy, and the metal was polished until she could see her vague reflection in it. But that was about all she knew about weapons.
“I’m not too sure a dagger would help against most of the monsters I see wandering around my inn.”
Then again, she doubted even the battleaxes would help if she were fighting a Rock Crab.
“…How about a crossbow? Do you have one of those?”
Selys snorted.
“Erin, those fire once. Ever tried reloading them? Not exactly fast—”
“But they are good for amateurs. I do not stock them, but Drake cities make use of them. We Gnolls—less so.”
The [Shopkeeper] grinned, indicating racks of bows. Erin hmmed.
“I can’t shoot arrows well. I’d like a crossbow. Would anyone sell them for…”
She showed him how much she had, which was a bad business move, but the Gnoll just peered at the coins and shook his head.
“They are pricier than a cheap bow, Miss Solstice, due to how they are made. Especially good ones from the House of Minos or Noelictus. For what you have, an ordinary crossbow is possibly out of reach, let alone an enchanted one.”
“Okay, no crossbow then.”
Erin sighed and stared at the racks of weapons. Selys tapped her shoulder and coughed discreetly.
“You don’thave to buy a weapon, you know. I keep telling you our adventurers will guard your inn.”
“For eight silver coins a day per adventurer? And that’s for the lowest-level ones, right? No thank you.”
Erin shook her head. She had a better idea than Selys’ option in mind, and fortunately, it didn’t involve her learning to poke people with bits of metal.
“Do you have any good short swords? Is that a shortsword? It looks short.”
The Gnoll nodded. He pulled a bronze sword that was indeed short off the display and placed it on the counter. Erin poked the hilt gingerly before picking it up. Selys hovered beside Erin, making sure the Human’s hands were well away from the blade. Both she and the Gnoll seemed more anxious than Erin was around bladed weapons.
“You know buying a sword won’t immediately give you any classes? You need weeks—months of practice before you’ll learn any Skills. And I wouldn’t try swinging it around by yourself Erin, I really wouldn’t.”
“I’m not stupid.”
“No, but—”
“How much?”
“For you, two gold coins and three silver.”
Erin looked at Selys. The Drake nodded cautiously.
“That’s expensive. But itis good craftsmanship.”
“Fine steel. You will not find better in the city.”
The Gnoll nodded and tapped the blade. He seemed honest, at least in that Erin hadn’t met a dishonest Gnoll yet. They were a bit more straightforward than Drakes, while Drakes were more like Humans.
“Okay, how about a shield? A, uh, buckler? Is that what they’re called?”
She pointed, and the Gnoll brought out a metal shield rounded in the center. It was a tiny shield, meant to be held in the hand to deflect weapons rather than arrows.
Selys objected.
“It’s too small. Look, you need a larger shield if you really want to equip yourself. Which I still don’t recommend, by the way. And even if you have both, you’re not a trained warrior, Erin.I could beat you, and I don’t even practice.”
Erin, the vanquisher of Shield Spiders, gave Selys a slightly indignant look. The slim [Receptionist] seemed serious, too.
“I know what I’m doing, Selys. Anyways, it’s not for myself. How much for both?”
“We do not sell many bucklers. I will sell both for four gold coins, Erin Solstice, so long as you promise not to use either without first being instructed.”
She grinned at him, her hands already going into her money pouch. It was a lot of her remaining coin, but Erin forked over the four fat coins at once.
“Deal. But like I said, these aren’t for me. They’re a gift. Or maybe a bribe.”
Selys was shaking her head as the coins changed hands and the Gnoll found a sheath for the short sword.
“A bribe? For who? Who’d use something as small as—wait. You’re not thinking of—Erin! No!”
Erin lifted both weapons into her arms. Even with her [Lesser Strength] Skill, they wereheavy. She turned to Selys and copied the Drake’s exasperated expression.
“Why not? They’re cheap, I know them personally, and they live around my inn.”
“They’ll stab you in the back when you’re asleep!”
Erin walked away from the Gnoll shopkeeper, arguing with Selys as he watched them in bemusement.
“They haven’t done it so far. Besides, these are the good ones. Well, sort of good. I already feed them.”
“This is a terrible idea, you’ll see.”
“No, it’s a great idea.You’ll see. And I could beat you in a fight, Selys. No offense.”
“Erin, you really couldn’t. I had to take [Soldier] training—every Liscorian citizen has to be atleast Level 1 for the army. Plus, my grandmother and my uncle gave me lessons. You’re good in a fight, but no soldier.”
“That’s a joke, right, Selys?”
The Drake put her claws on her hips as Erin tried not to look amused.
“Want to stop by the training grounds on the way to your inn?”
——
Half an hour later, Rags stared down at the shiny weapons Erin offered her and then up at the Human smiling at her. Well, sort of smiling.
Erin was wincing—mostly because of the bruises on her butt and sides. And scratches. Selys had given her a bit of healing potion, but even with that—
Who knew [Receptionists] could fight dirty? Let alone fight with their claws.
Not just claws like a cat would scratch you, but a set of steel claws you wore over your hands, like brass knuckles. Apparently, Selys sometimes tested Silver-ranks, and she had given Erin a lot of scratches.
Then again, she wasn’t here because Erin had kicked her in the stomach hard enough to make Selys lie down. Erin felt bad and good about that. Anyways, now Erin was proferring her new gear to Rags, and she was smiling expectantly.
Right up until Erin realized the Goblin wasn’t taking the gear. Slowly, the small Goblin shook her head.
Erin’s face fell. She thrust the sheathed short sword at the Goblin, and the Goblin backed up into her bodyguards.
“No? Why not? Come on, it’s a great deal!”
Rags shook her head again, and the other Goblins following her moved in front of her and barred Erin’s way. The far taller [Innkeeper] scowled at them, and they quailed a bit, but there were seven Goblins including Rags in the inn and only one Erin. If it came to it—
They’d probably run. But strangely, Rags was confident Erin would never try to hurt them. She was a strange Human, possibly a good one. She just had terrible ideas, like the deal she was offering the Goblins.
She was no longer the smallest Goblin. She was now Rags—and her tribe was no longer really a tribe.
Some Goblins ate and slept in the cave, but most had left or wandered off. Rags was finding them and making them come back and eat in the cave—and gather blue fruits and hunt. The Chieftain was dead.
Someone had to be a Chieftain. Rags had kept the Goblins who listened to her fed. Gather blue fruits, make a fire, steal eggs, get the fish—Erin’s meals fed more Goblins. This…
This was hard. But Rags was nowRags, and she had a new class.
[Chieftain]. So long as she was one, her tribe would not attack the inn.Her tribe. But that did not mean…she shoved the hilt of the sword back, but Erin kept waving it in her face.
“Look. It’s really simple, okay? I’ll give you these weapons and feed you guys as much as you want. In return, you guard my inn. Keep thieves and monsters away. It’s not a bad deal, right?”
Itwas a bad deal. While Rags was no eloquent orator, her own train of thought was quite clear. Her splintered tribe had been small even before the Chieftain had been killed. Now, it was in a power struggle, and Rags was leading the smaller breakaway faction who didn’t believe all Humans should be eaten on sight.
More than that, the small Goblin knew the Floodplains and was sure that defending the inn was a death sentence. What the strange Human girl was offering was a terrible deal. The magnificent weapons tempted Rags greatly, but even they couldn’t outweigh the massive disadvantages of Erin’s proposal.
Now, how to explain that to an idiot? Rag’s brow furrowed, and she tried her best. She gargled a few syllables in her own language at Erin and then tried the language Erin spoke in. Neither worked. Erin just stared at her blankly, like one of the grazing animals—cows.
“You don’t want the sword?”
Rags nodded. She pointed at the other Goblins and at the ground and then shook her head. She held up a claw, pointed at the sword and her chest, and nodded vigorously—then repeated pointing at the ground and shaking her head. Erin worked this out.
“Okay, youwant the sword. But you don’t want to guard.”
Rags nodded again.
“Why? Is it because there aren’t enough of you?”
Nod, nod. At last, Erin was getting it.
“Well—you could be tactical about it, couldn’t you? What if I got you a bow and arrow? That might be better than running around in a huge mob like you guys do.”
This time, all the Goblins glared at Erin. That was a valid, traditional Goblin tactic. Rags had improved on the formula by swarming in controlled bursts and incorporating devilishly cunning tactics like feints into their strategy, but swarming was what Goblins did best.
“Fighting in a huge mob just doesn’t seem that smart is all I’m saying. But what if you all had bows or something?”
Again, Rags shook her head. She mimed shooting an arrow and then poked the Goblin in the head next to her gently.
“Oh, not strong enough? Really?”
Nod. Rags really wished she could speak other languages or, barring that, only one Human could understand her. It was just as well she was a genius and Erin was bright enough so they could communicate this way.
And it seemed like Erin got it. Bows were useful, but not as good as having many knives. Goblins’ shorter reach and weaker strength meant that they couldn’t fire as far or as hard as a Human or Drake archer anyways.
Erin wondered how strong you had to be to pierce Shield Spider armor.
“I get it. Small arms and small bows, right? Size does matter. Too bad you don’t have any crossbows.”
Rags’ ears perked up at that, but the Goblin didn’t react in any other way, letting the Human girl muse on, oblivious.
“I guess—well, yeah, anyone in armor wouldn’t be killed by a few arrows. But crossbows and longbows can pierce that stuff, right? But longbows—”
Erin eyed the Goblins. They were around four feet tall on average, and only the special ones like the former Chieftain got any taller. And even he would have had trouble stringing the massive longbows that could reach up to seven feet in length.
“Life is tough, huh?”
This time, all the Goblins nodded. Life was tough. They were at war—well, Goblins were always at war, but this time, they were at war with each other. The tribe was small, food was scarce because winter was coming, and they only had a weird Human in an inn to feed them food in between running from the countless adventurers pouring into the region.
“Well, I guess I could return these things.”
Erin sighed and placed the short sword and buckler on a table. She noted how all the Goblins’ eyes were drawn covetously towards the weapon. Drat. She’d thought it was a good idea, but when she really thought about it, she understood Rags’ predicament.
Besides, when Erin stood in front of the tiny Goblin girl, she felt like she was still speaking to a child. Perhaps—perhaps she was. How long did it take for Goblins to grow up? How could you tell how old they were anyways?
Erin eyed all the Goblins as they seemed to confer with their leader, Rags. They were injured, most of them. They came into her inn every few days and ate as much as they could before waddling out, and they paid. But Erin had the distinct impression the battle that had started at her inn hadn’t ended with Klbkch. The Goblins’ faces were hard to remember, but some changed every few days. And Rags had her own cuts and scars on her body.
They were—well, they were evil, some of them. But the ones in front of Erin struck a chord with her. A sense of shared suffering, perhaps. And Erin had an idea that would help them and maybe her a tiny bit.
She stood up. The Goblins immediately looked up at her. Erin pointed.
“Stay there. And don’t steal the sword or I’ll flatten you, got it?”
She walked back into her trashed kitchen that she still hadn’t found the time to tidy up. She walked to the back of the kitchen and opened a cupboard and stared at the jars inside. The thief who’d ransacked her inn hadn’t even gone near this cupboard or tried to drink what was inside. Very wise, given the contents of the jars.
The Goblins were all crowded around the short sword when Erin lugged the massive jar of Acid Fly juice back into the room. They were gingerly touching the blade and cutting their fingers on the edge when they looked up. When they saw what Erin was carrying, they immediately fled for the door.
“Hold it!”
Rags paused and tripped up the Goblins behind her. They crashed into a pile, and she stared suspiciously at Erin as the Human groaned and set the jar on the floor. Glowing, green acid sloshed about in the too-thin glass walls of the container. A massive jar! Erin had heard this was for pickling fish or something, but she had a different use in mind that had horrified everyone who saw it. She rubbed her back and beckoned at the Goblin.
“I’ve got an idea that’ll help us both out. And I’ll give you the sword and buckler, okay? I’ll put it on your tab.”
That did the trick. Rags was over caressing the blade in a second. Erin pointed to the acid jars.
“You know what this is, right?”
Rags nodded. She kept a very respectful distance from the green, glowing acid sloshing in the jar and made the other Goblins stand even further back. That made Erin feel better too. She wouldn’t put it past one of them to trip into the glass jar, andthat would not be a pretty sight.
She patted the glass jar.
“Dangerous stuff. And I don’t want it. But what if I gave you some smaller jars? You could sort of throw this stuff at people, right? Not on Shield Spiders, though. It doesn’t really work on them. But other things—yeah. What do you think?”
She pulled out a small, Human-fist-sized jar and showed it to Rags. The Goblins blinked down at the small jar, and they looked at the bigger glass jar in sudden comprehension.
“I’ll sell you these acid jars, and you can pay me, okay?”
Erin waited. Rags studied the green Acid Fly liquid mixed with the occasional fly body. She knew full well how dangerous the acid was. She was also impressed Erin was brave enough to harvest the Acid Flies, especially given how big some of them got. And the deal she was offering?
That was a good deal.
The Goblin looked at the jars and saw a thousand different tactical options, not least of which was letting other Goblins drink the deadly acid if she left it out in the open. Erin looked at the Goblins and saw a convenient recycling machine that might pay her.
Both Human and Goblin smiled.
——
It was weird making a deal in sign language, but Erin had played chess players from other countries before. Even a deaf chess player and two mute ones. One of them had kicked her ass twice in a row, and she’d had a great time laughing with him over a stupid move she’d made—
The point was that she could communicate more or less with Rags. The small Goblin was extremely smart, and that was before you compared her with the other Goblins following her. They’d contented themselves with picking their noses and wiping their fingers on each other while Erin and Rags ‘talked’.
Eventually, the deal had been for Rags and her Goblins to pay several bronze coins per jar of acid. It wasn’t much, especially since Erin would have to buy newer, smaller jars for the Goblins to carry. But it was better than her pouring the acid out on the ground like she’d been doing. There was a huge scar in the earth outside of her inn that testified to how smart that idea was.
But it was a good deal. A great deal, even. It brought new revenue into Erin’s inn, especially since Rags bought all the jars Erin had in the inn and filled them up with acid. It helped her get rid of something she didn’t want, and it might help Rags and her band of Goblins survive a bit longer.
It was a good deal. It just wasn’t the deal Erin wanted.
She stared at the jar of acid. She could make her own acid flasks if she wanted. It was a handy weapon, even if some things like the Rock Crabs and the Shield Spiders were mostly immune to the acid. She had her fists and that [Bar Fighting] Skill as well as [Unerring Throw]. It was enough for self-defense against most of the monsters she’d seen, and she could run away from the rest.
But none of that helped protect her inn. Someone could walk in and steal as much as they wanted if Erin were gone, or they could hide and attack her when she got back. She had no defense against mobs of enemies, and she was sure a Rock Crab could level the inn if one got close. Seed cores wouldn’t scare away a swarm of the stupid crabs if something set them off.
She needed protection. Without it, Erin was truly screwed. And—and she needed to clean up her trashed inn, buy replacements for all of her supplies, and hope that she had enough money left over for—something. And that the mysterious thief wouldn’t come back when Erin was out again.
None of it was overwhelming, but for Erin, it was too much to deal with at the moment. She rested her head on the table, exhausted.
Knock. Knock.
Erin didn’t raise her head off the table.
“Come in.”
Knock. Knock.
“Isaid, come in.”
No response. The knocking continued. Erin waited for it to end, but the person at the door was persistent. First one minute, then five, the knocking continued rhythmically, without stopping. At last, Erin stood up, growling.
She stalked over to the door and yanked it open.
“Isaid—”
A skeleton stood in the doorway, tall as Erin—taller. Just a skeleton. Its yellow-white bones were devoid of any flesh, and yet it stood upright, denying biology and physics. Erin looked into twin burning blue-white flames that flickered in the skeleton’s eye sockets. The skeleton opened its jaw andclattered at her.
Erin shut the door. Then she screamed. Then she turned to run for the kitchen knives.
Only when she had turned did Erin realize she hadn’t locked the door. It opened, and she turned to see the skeleton walk silently into her inn.
Erin backed up. The skeleton advanced. It wasn’t attacking. Itwasn’t attacking, but Erin was about to have a heart attack. It stepped towards her, and Erin nearly tripped over the acid jar still sitting on the floor.
Suddenly, the skeleton raised a hand. Erin flinched and raised her hands, but the undead creature wasn’t attacking. It didn’t have…any weapon? And yes, it wasn’t striking at her. Instead, it held something in its hand.
Erin blinked. The skeleton held the scrap of parchment out to her silently. She took a step back, and it advanced. Not too close to her, but it wasn’t letting her get away either.
She hesitated. The skeleton was juststaring at her, although it had no real eyes, just the burning sockets in its skull. That was worse. It was waiting. She had to do something. So Erin took a few deep breaths and then reached out.
She took the piece of paper from the skeleton with a shaking hand. Erin edged away from the skeleton and swiftly glanced down at the paper, reading while keeping an eye on the undead monster. She blinked at the messy script, looked up at the skeleton, and then around. She glanced back at the skeleton and then got mad.
“Pisces!”
He appeared in the room, wavering into focus as his [Invisibility] spell ended. Perhaps he’d meant it to be a dramatic entrance, but Erin wasn’t impressed. It wasn’t nearly as cool as an invisibility cloak.
Pisces opened his mouth, and Erin stepped forwards and punched him in the face. Hard. He fell down, barely missing the acid jar. Quickly, Erin grabbed the jar and towed it into the kitchen before she or he knocked it over.
The mage, or rather, [Necromancer], looked up at Erin reproachfully as she walked back into the room. She didn’t give him a hand up, so he reluctantly picked himself off, brushing the dirt on his robes onto the ground.
“That was most unkind to a faithful patron, good Mistress.”
“Jerk. What thehell is that?”
Erin pointed with a shaking finger to the skeleton. It had watched everything silently.
Sulkily, Pisces pointed to the piece of paper on the ground.
“I assumed my explanation would quell any questions you had.”
Erin seized the mage by the robes and dragged him face to face.
“What. Is. That?”
He looked into her eyes and chose his words carefully.
“It is a skeleton. An undead, animated skeleton to be precise.”
“And why is it here?”
“To protect you, of course. And to pay off my considerable tab.”
Erin let Pisces go. She stared at the skeleton and pulled at her hair.
“Why is—why did—”
Her hands twitched as she tried to stop from strangling Pisces on the spot. He backed up and straightened his robes, looking huffy.
“Is it not what you’ve been seeking?”
“You’re lucky I don’t throw acid on your face.”
“Please, Erin. I am only acting in your best interests—and mine. Consider this undead warrior.”
Pisces indicated the silent skeleton.
“Affordable, competent protection that needs neither sleep nor sustenance. I would say it is you who should be tendering your gratitude tome, Erin.”
He smiled, self-satisfied. Erin didn’t smile. She eyed the skeleton.
“It’s for me? What, does it obey orders?”
Pisces looked mildly insulted.
“Of course. I attuned it to you already. This skeleton will obey all commands and faithfully guard you and your possessions. Give it a command and see.”
Erin really didn’t want to. But the skeleton was standing too close for comfort. So she pointed to a corner.
“Go over there.”
Immediately, the skeleton turned and walked to the corner, navigating around the tables and chairs. There it stopped and swiveled its head, watching for Erin’s next command.
Somehow, having a skeleton standing in a dark corner staring at her was even worse than having it right next to her. Erin shuddered.
“I don’t like it.”
She ordered the skeleton to come back. It obediently walked closer, and Erin walked around the skeleton. She had to order it to stand still first, and then the skeleton stood, like the creepiest statue, in place.
“Why did you think this was a good idea, Pisces?”
Pisces glanced at Erin, put out by the continued questioning.
“Ihave heard your repeated complaints about inadequate protection. And when I noticed the, ah, state your inn was in this morning—”
“Oh, yeah! Did you do that?”
He raised his hands and backed away.
“Not I. The culprit had already departed when I arrived.”
The mage’s eyes shifted. Erin wondered if he’d been the one to help himself to her coin—or more food. She growled, and the skeleton moved. It jerked into a low, fighting stance and faced Pisces of all people. He looked as alarmed as Erin.
“Call it off.”
“You’re the [Necromancer], you do it.”
“I made it so it would only obeyyou. Call it off or I’ll have to dismantle it.”
“Hey, stop!”
Erin smacked the skeleton on the back of the head. She immediately regretted it. The feel of smooth bone on her hand was—
The skeleton swiveled around to stare at Erin as she wiped her hand on her shirt. She pointed at it shakily.
“Don’t attack him. Unless I tell you to. Understand?”
It nodded. That was creepy. Erin shuddered.
“It is a competent warrior that will fight for you. And I do believe that is what you need, unless I am completely in error.”
He was right, but the way he was right was completelywrong. Erin just didn’t know how to explain that to Pisces. He clearly thought he’d done Erin a favor, and he was getting snippy in the absence of her unconditional gratitude. But then she noticed something else that was wrong.
“If it’s some kind of warrior, shouldn’t it at least have a sword?”
“Swords are expensive, Miss Solstice. And I am—regrettably—short on funding at the moment. Surely you could afford to equip your new bodyguard yourself?”
And she’d just given the short sword and buckler to Rags. Erin ground her teeth.
“Okay, fine. You’ve given me a pet skeleton. What does it do, exactly? Besides fight and scare me to death, that is?”
Pisces shrugged.
“Whatever you wish. It will obey any command you give it, but, ah, its capacity for thought is quite limited at the moment. That may improve with time. I have made several improvements over the traditional undead animation spells—”
“So it’s a special undead skeleton monster. Wonderful. And what happens if it breaks or goes nuts?”
“The spell will not wear out. The body might in the course of normal combat though, it is true. I would be happy to repair any damage done for a nominal fee—”
Erin shook her head.
“Skeleton repairs. That’s how they get you every time.”
Glumly, she stared at the skeleton. Was it because she’d gone nuts or just gotten used to this world? She wasn’t half as freaked out by the skeleton as she felt she should have been. And what was worse, she was even considering keeping the thing.
“And this is supposed to pay off your tab? All the gold you owe me?”
Pisces cleared his throat awkwardly.
“Well, the price of an advanced reanimation spell such as this is traditionally worth—”
He cut off fast as Erin turned her head slightly.
“I suppose a full repayment of my debts and some credit towards the future would not be too much to ask?”
“It might.”
Erin stared glumly at the skeleton. It stared back, waiting patiently for orders.
“Okay, let’s say I accept this. Won’t the Watch get mad?”
No response. Erin sighed.
“And this wouldn’t happen to be a body belonging to anyone in Liscor, would it? But no—it’s a Human skeleton. Except—”
She frowned. Now that she looked, the skeleton didn’t lookquite right. Sure, it had a Human head, but its ribs looked a bit different than the books she’d read in biology class. Come to that, some of the bones around the pelvis looked subtly different.
“Hey, you didn’t rob a bunch of graves for this, did you, Pisces? Because if you did—hello?”
Scowling, Erin looked around. She saw no unhelpful mage, just the skeleton. Just an open door and a very noticeable absence of mage. He was gone.
Erin stared at the open door. Then she wondered if Pisces were still in the inn. Invisibility spells and all that. Quite deliberately, Erin walked around the room with her arms spread, trying to hit anything invisible and listening for sounds.
Nothing. He was probably gone. Probably. But Erin would be changing under a towel from now on.
She sighed, turned, nearly ran into the skeleton, and bit back a scream. It stared at her expectantly.
“Go over there!”
Obediently, the skeleton walked away, but it turned its head, waiting for orders. Erin tried not to freak out. She couldnot deal with this. Even if it did seem like an answer, it was the most back-handed, slap-to-the-face answer she’d ever found.
What to do? What todo? The first thing to do was get the skeleton out of the room, possibly out of her life. Erin stared grimly at the skeleton and realized she was going to lose any staring match.
She had an idea. Erin pointed at the skeleton.
“You. Skele-thing.”
It stared at her expectantly.
“Follow me.”
Erin walked into the kitchen, grabbed a few items, and shoved them at the skeleton, who had followed her.
“Carry this. And follow me.”
The skeleton walked behind Erin, silent as a ghost. Its bony feet clicked silently on the floorboards as she made her way upstairs. It was a part of the inn Erin seldom visited for one real reason:
The dirt.
It was everywhere. And while Erin could keep the bottom floor of her inn mostly clean thanks to her [Basic Cleaning] Skill, she hadn’t even bothered to take on the upstairs.
If cleaning the common room of the inn had been akin to a short jog in terms of effort, the upper floor would have been like summiting the Himalayas back-to-back. Even the skeleton seemed impressed by the layers of dirt in the room Erin led it to.
“Give me that.”
Erin pulled the bucket and old rag out of the skeleton’s hands. The days-old water slopped onto the floor, instantly dissolving several years’ worth of accumulations in a moment. She dipped the rag into the water, squeezed it, and then handed it to the skeleton. It took the rag and looked at it blankly. Erin pointed to the room.
“Clean this.”
The skeleton stared at her. Erin waved at the dusty rooms and mildewed boards.
“All of it. Clean it. Understand?”
Slowly, the skeleton looked at the rag. It looked at the floor. It tossed the rag on the floor and began wiping weakly with its foot. Erin shook her head.
“No! You take this—”
She grabbed the cloth and scrubbed energetically at the floorboards, removing a layer of dirt, dust, and black stains, which immediately turned the dustrag black.
“—And clean up. See? Just like that.”
The skeleton paused and then tried to copy Erin. She watched, correcting, pointing out errors.
“Scrub harder there. No—don’t move the rag like that. A smooth, circular motion. Like this. See?”
After a few minutes, Erin was begrudgingly impressed as the skeleton revealed a shiny patch of floorboards underneath the carpeting of detritus.
“Good.”
The skeleton paused and looked up at her. She waved her hand at it.
“Don’t stop! Keep going!”
It stared around the room, confused. Erin shook her head. She walked to the doorway and showed the skeleton the other rooms.
“See this? This entire floor. Clean it. Clean the floor, the walls, and the windows. Don’t stop until you’re finished!”
Erin stomped down the stairs, leaving the skeleton upstairs in the half-light. It stared down at the dustrag. Then the skeleton stared around the room. It was covered in residue left by moisture, open windows, dust, animal excrement, and rot. Even the ceiling was speckled or sometimes splashed with unfortunate stains. And this was one room of many.
Skeletons couldn’t sigh. It was a lung thing, as in, skeletons didn’t have them. But the fires in this undead’s eyes dimmed ever so slightly. Then the skeleton bent down and got to work.
It didn’t level that night. Skeletons couldn’t become innkeepers. But it did have something in its mind. Something unique to it. Words that had echoed when it was first created. Words that no undead had ever heard before.
[Unnamed, Level 1 Skeleton Warrior]
It wasn’t sure how it felt about that.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T03:31:10)
leave your spooky scary skele-typos below ?
Stick! (2023-03-06T01:52:40)
Pretty sure Rags only gained the [Chieftain] class in Volume 3? Or was/is that retconned?
dinoseen (2023-03-09T15:30:40)
the drake shopkeeper calls the sword he sells Erin “fine steel”, but it’s previously described as bronze. Perhaps another phrase to describe its craftsmanship is in order.
thariprasasts94 (2023-03-09T17:16:38)
“You could sort of throw this stuff at people”
…
If any liscorians heard her, they will crucify her.
“but, ah, its capacity for thought is quite limited at the moment. That may improve with time.”
Yep, this will not go wrong. Oh yeah.
So the skeleton can level, and can improve. It reminds me of chatgpt. ?
Soul (2023-03-11T15:00:14)
Something unique to it. Words that had echoed when it was first created. Words that no undead had ever heard before.
[Unnamed, Level 1 Skeleton Warrior]
…
If this is truely the first time, shouldn’t it be a green class?
Oddyssis (2023-03-13T20:07:53)
Minor nitpick that’s been bothering me for a while, several times, including this chapter, you refer to swords as heavy.  They’re actually really light.  Like 1-2lbs and that includes longswords.  Polearms and great swords only really go up to 5-8lbs.  A short sword should be a pound or so.
Oddyssis (2023-03-13T20:08:39)
Minor nitpick that’s been bothering me for a while, several times, including this chapter, you refer to swords as heavy. They’re actually really light. Like 1-2lbs and that includes longswords. Polearms and great swords only really go up to 5-8lbs. A short sword should be a pound or so.
juppie (2023-03-14T17:53:19)
[spoiler title=”Inconsistency: Rags got the chieftain class here, but also for the first time later in the story:”] In 3.31G rags upgrades her [leader] class into [chieftain], She gets the leader class in 2.14G and levels it in 3.26G [/spoiler]
Fkg (2023-03-23T11:50:24)
By the time we see it in writing, the class has already been gained. We only see green in the moment of bestowal.
Fkg (2023-03-23T12:41:52)
>Rags really wished she could speak other languages or, barring that, only one Human could understand her.
I suggest “only one that the Human could understand.” The her at the end of this sentence is wrong, it looks like you had two ideas of how to write this sentence and didn’t finish editing it.
____
Weapons and shields are not heavy unless they are entirely ceremonial, and you would not need [lesser strength] to carry them either.
Metal armour weighs a lot but just like with overstuffed backpacks, once you put it on and tighten the straps the weight is barely noticeable. If you are very out of shape your shoulders and knees will be in trouble after a few minutes, but so would they if you tried to hike carrying a full pack. I own both weapons and armour and wear them for hours at medieval fairs and do play and show fights, children can swing my swords and take hits on the shields forever if I let them.
In universe, if [lesser strength] is necessary to carry a short sword and a small shield then every single [fighter] will need to acquire that skill before they can even level up to 5 and we know that isn’t true.
Kris (2023-03-26T18:23:27)
Came down here to mention this as well. Perhaps replacing “Fine steel” with “Fine craftsmanship” would be appropriate, for this bronze sword.
somebody (2023-03-28T22:24:38)
And yes, it wasn’t striking at her.
Should probably be “And no” – since this is phrased to answer an implied question “Was it striking at her?” The answer should be “no, it was not”.
Deli (2023-04-14T00:45:29)
Now we got a goblin named rags, time to call the skeleton bones
Darkgills (2023-04-23T03:32:05)
What! Skeletons can’t become innkeepers? Why not? Is there classes that only certain races can get? There is no skeleton equivalent to an innkeeper?! Where do skeletons go for food and slee— oh wait never mind…
greycat (2023-07-22T17:59:47)
The skeleton doesn’tthink it can become an innkeeper.  It might be wrong.  But hey, it’s very young and inexperienced.
Broock (2023-11-19T03:14:51)
Sans réelle raison, Erin continue  de refuser l’invitation de sa pauvre amie gnoll.
Triste ça.
Et enfin, il serait grand temps que cet étage serve à quelque chose. Qu’elle continue pendant des jours/des semaines à dormir sur le sol, une chaise voir une table me semble difficile à croire.
cixzejy (2024-01-04T21:33:03)
Erin is gonna drive me crazy. She’s dumb as rocks and it’s painful. What if the goblins end up killing someone with the gear or acid she gives them? What if someone sees them with new weapons sold in the city? She’d be actively arming goblins outside the city monsters known to be murderers and rapists. It’s driving me nuts that she isn’t getting more pushback on her idiotic ideas.
yagoldt (2024-01-12T12:44:32)
Who knows if the Goblins aren’t killing people right now?? Like where are they getting their money, one time it was said that the goblins had coins covered in blood.
Definetly not the last time we will see stupid ideas from Erin.
Can't believe (2024-02-14T06:14:43)
I can’t help but laugh at this stupidity “What if the goblins end up killing someone with the gear or acid she gives them?” like what do you even expect them to do with does gears and acids? Cook so rice? Drink them? Of course someone gonna get killed! did you really think Erin sold those shit expecting them to play nice? Like huh?
Can't believe (2024-02-14T06:20:16)
Erin is an innkeeper not a soldier an adventurer or even a hero why would she gives a shit what her regular customer did/do outside of the inn? As long as they are paying and not attacking the inn then it’s all good.
Blaz (2024-03-21T16:09:00)
I went to Google to prove you wrong, but that’s actually correct. Crazy
SamArcher72 (2024-12-13T04:38:13)
Why is Erin avoiding Krshia on her offer for home vist by the way? I never got that.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.42
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-42/

[Innkeeper Level 12!]
Someday, Erin was going to hear that annoying message in her head and jump off a cliff. But at least she’d gotten eight solid hours of sleep afterwards.
Blearily, Erin got up and wondered if she leveled because of the skeleton. Something to do with the skeleton? Did [Innkeepers] level up from getting bodyguards? Or…bouncers?
“Can skeletons bounce? Figuratively or literally?”
Erin blinked around at the room for several minutes. It was too early to think about complex things. She wanted a few things in no short order. Bathroom, food, and…that was about it.
The bathroom issue was hard. There were no real toilets in her inn. Erin had no idea why, but some shattered pottery upstairs and a terrible staining around the general area in each room made her think chamber pots had been in style here.
Erin wasn’t about to use a chamber pot. So she had gotten into the practice of digging (and then covering with bits of sawdust and dirt) a latrine around the back of her inn. It was messy, disgusting—and she really wasn’t happy about squatting in the open.
Something had to be done. That was what Erin decided as she finished her mercifully quick business and grabbed the roll of toilet paper. At least this world had something like toilet paper, if not as fluffy and easy on the skin. But the bathroom issue was bad. Someday, someone was going to walk up, and then Erin would die of shame or possibly stab them to death.
Once the bathroom issue was finished with, Erin could then wash her hands with what water she still had in one of her buckets and get breakfast. She was running low on water, too. That meant another trip to the stream, possibly combined with dodging flying fish if they were in a bitey mood today.
At this point, the thought of ducking a several-hundred pound monster full of teeth barely even bothered Erin. It was just another chore. She mechanically opened the shelves in her kitchen, wishing again she had the preservation runes. But they were expensive, and she ‘only’ had just under ten gold pieces.
Not a bad amount of money to have, really. Most families might have that much stored if they were lucky, according to Selys. If a week’s pay could be a single gold piece for some—well, it turned out fighting monsters was very profitable. If exceptionally dangerous. Erin supposed that checked out. Regardless, it was a good amount for food—a low amount for anything magical. She wondered how much it cost to build an outhouse.
Another thing to worry about later. She’d put it on her list.
Erin turned, jar of milk in one hand, and nearly tripped over her sleeping area. She grabbed a counter to steady herself and added moving her sleeping area to the list. She really,really didn’t want to trip someday and splash boiling water all over herself.
But it was such anice sleeping area. And it would be so much…some work to move it. Plus, there were all the handy knives and weapons close-by if trouble came calling again.
She had a lovely little blanket and pillows she’d used to make a semi-permanent bedspread in a corner of the kitchen. True, it would have been nice to have a mattress, but Erin had been counting her coins until recently. Now that she could spring for one, Erin dreamed of a queen-sized bed with silk sheets. She’d never tried silk sheets, but maybe Krshia had them…? Probably not.
Still half-asleep, Erin walked around her kitchen, assembling a breakfast of sorts. There was actually a quite acceptable cereal that went well with the rich cow’s milk Erin bought. Sprinkle a little sugar in there and it would be delicious.
Since sugar was too expensive for that, Erin instead sliced up some blue fruit into the bowl. That was nearly as good.
Food, done. Erin walked out into the common room and set her bowl on the table. She pulled a chair out—and then noticed something was standing behind her. Slowly, she looked around.
Two glowing, blue flames in empty eye-sockets illuminated a fleshless head. Erin staredinto the back of the skull and yellow teeth magically fixed into a permanent, deathly smile. A skeleton grinned at her, inches away from Erin’s face.
“Aaaaaaaaah!”
Erin screamed even as she punched. The skeleton caught a fist to the head and staggered backwards. It fell down. Erin clutched at her fist.
“Ow! Ow, ow—go over there!”
Obediently, the skeleton got up and walked over to the corner. It watched as Erin waved her hand around and cursed for a while. When she was done, Erin marched up and poked the skeleton in the ribs.
“Hey! I thought I told you to stay upstairs!”
It shook its head. Erin blinked and then got mad. She poked at the skeleton again, and her finger went straight into the rib cage. Shuddering, Erin pulled her finger back.
“Idistinctly remember telling you to clean the rooms upstairs.”
The skeleton nodded. Erin glared.
“Well? Why are you down here?”
It stared at her. Erin supposed it was just as well the skeleton hadn’t responded. She glared at the staircase.
“Okay, wise guy. Let’s see just what happened while I was asleep.”
She stomped up the stairs, the skeleton following her close behind. Erin walked into one of the dirty rooms—
And stopped.
“Whoa.”
Something had changed. It was like one of those spot the difference games in newspapers, except that the difference here waseverything. Erin blinked around at the spotless room and wondered if she was hallucinating. If she was, she preferred not to wake up.
Slowly, she stared at the walls, the floors, and the windows. All were spotless. All wereclean. She could even see the original color of the floorboards. Instead of their dirty grey-brown, they’d transformed into a lustrous golden brown that was actually pleasing to look at.
“Okay. Okay, that’s, um—”
Erin turned and blinked at the skeleton.
“Did you do all the rooms like this?”
It nodded. The skeleton walked over to a corner of the room and picked something up. It brought a bucket over to Erin and a scrap. She squinted at it. It looked—it looked like a piece of a dustrag. A tiny piece.
“Where’s the rest of it gone, then?”
The skeleton shrugged. Erin wondered where the rest of the dirt and grime had gone. There was a sludgy substance in the bucket, but it looked like the skeleton had just tossed the grime out the window for the most part. Erin could get behind that cleaning style.
And each roomwas spotless. Well, there were some spots. Despite the skeleton’s best efforts, it still couldn’t clean away mildew. Some of the rotted boards still needed replacing, but Erin had [Basic Crafting] and a hammer. She was a god of minor repairs.
The entire upper floor was suddenly, miraculously habitable. Erin wandered around each room in a daze. She returned to the first room and wondered if the floors were softer here than in the kitchen. Well, the skeleton had done a good job after all. Erin wasn’t sure what to make of that. But the roomswere clean.
Then she had a thought. Erin looked up.
“Hey! You missed the ceiling!”
The skeleton stared at her and then up at the still dirty ceiling. Erin scowled at it.
“I said clean everything. The floor, the walls, windows…and the ceiling. I said that, right?”
The skeleton shook its head. Erin scowled at it.
“Well, I thought it. And you should have done it anyways!”
There was no way to tell if the skeleton was angry, sad, or…skeletons didn’t have emotions, right? But the flames in the skeleton’s eyes dimmed for a second as Erin glared at it.
She felt bad. Not because she cared much about the skeleton’s feelings, but because Erin could at least tell when she was being a jerk. She relented.
“Okay. You did a good job.”
The skeleton seemed to brighten at that. It followed Erin downstairs. She sat down with a sigh at her breakfast and then paused. The skeleton was standing right next to her. She pointed.
“Go over there.”
It walked over to one corner. Erin eyed the skeleton and spoke again.
“Turn around.”
It did. At last, Erin was able to enjoy her meal without twin glowing eyes watching her every bite.
Breakfast came and went, fairly quickly too. Erin was hungry, but she wasn’t savoring her meal like she normally did. Instead, she was thinking. When she was done, she pushed her bowl back and stared with narrowed eyes at the skeleton. Well. What was the saying about lemons and life? If life gives you lemons…burn down the lemon factory? Something like that.
Anyways, it was time to get to work. Erin cleared her throat.
“Hey, you.”
Instantly, the skeleton turned around. She shook her head.
“Get the bucket and follow me, okay?”
She got up and walked into the kitchen as the skeleton immediately ran upstairs. Erin was rich enough now to have more than one bucket, and so both she and the skeleton were equipped as they left the inn and walked to the stream.
It was a quiet walk. Erin told the skeleton to follow her further back, and she tried to ignore it mostly as she strolled along. Maybe she could have talked to it, but—no. The day Erin started holding conversations with skeletons was the day she finally snapped.
They got to the stream. Erin told the skeleton to thoroughly wash its bucket out first before they filled both up with water. It was just as well she had a bucket for drinking water and a bucket for washing water anyways. She’d deliberately marked both buckets with some paint to avoid drinking…whatever was still clinging to the bucket the skeleton was lifting.
“Okay, let’s go.”
Erin reached for her bucket, but the skeleton got there first. It seized first the handle of its own bucket and then hers and tried to lift both. It strained and pulled, but it could barely move either full bucket more than an inch. Erin shook her head.
“See, that’s justsad.”
The skeleton clattered its teeth together. Erin shuddered. She grabbed her bucket and lifted it up. It was heavy, but she was stronger than the skeleton.
“Don’t do that. Takeone bucket and follow me.”
Awkwardly, the skeleton hefted one of the full buckets of water and staggered after Erin. She walked quickly, trying to balance speed with avoiding losing too much water over the sides.
She was used to the trek from the stream to the inn, but her arm still vaguely ached by the time she got back. But ever since she’d acquired the [Lesser Strength] Skill, the trip had become far less painful. And this time, she didn’t even have to make two round trips.
“Okay! Water’s done. Now, let’s get some food.”
Erin left the two buckets inside the inn, grabbed a basket, and walked off. The skeleton followed her obediently as the two walked across the rolling grassy landscape. They walked for about six minutes before Erin threw her arm out and stopped the skeleton in its tracks. It stared at her, confused.
“Watch it. Rock Crab.”
She pointed. The skeleton looked and saw, about two hundred meters away, a large boulder slowly moving across the landscape. Underneath the large shell of rock, the skeleton could see massive legs slowly propelling the boulder around.
When the skeleton realized what the Rock Crab really was, it immediately raised its fists and tried to charge the slow-moving monster. Erin had to grab the skeleton by one bony arm.
“Hold it! What are you doing?”
The skeleton fought to run at the crab. Erin ordered it to stay still.
“Don’t try to fight that thing! It’ll eat you. Or—snap you in two like a bunch of twigs.”
Reluctantly, the skeleton subsided. It stared hard at the Rock Crab, which ignored both Erin and the skeleton as it wandered off. When it had disappeared over a hill, Erin let the skeleton go.
“Don’t be stupid. Come on and follow me.”
The skeleton walked after Erin. Eventually, they came to the blue fruit orchard. Erin showed the skeleton how to gather fruits.
“See the basket? Fill the basket.”
So saying, Erin handed the skeleton her basket and sat down. Instantly, the skeleton began running around the orchard, gathering up fallen fruit and kicking trees to make the fruit fall. Erin sat under a tree and took a quick nap.
——
Having a skeleton was quite useful. In a few minutes, the skeleton had filled Erin’s basket to overflowing. It carefully walked back to Erin, trying not to spill the ripe fruits.
Erin didn’t react as the skeleton approached. She was sleeping. The skeleton hesitated and then placed the basket at her feet. It stood and waited, but she slept on. She was truly asleep.
The skeleton hesitated. It seemed to be thinking. At last, it turned and began scanning the landscape around Erin. Was it checking for threats? Erin couldn’t tell.
One of her eyelids had been cracked open ever so slightly as the skeleton approached. Now that it was looking the other way, Erin sighed inaudibly and sat up. Well, at least the skeleton wasn’t going to try killing her in her sleep. She’d had a terrible night last night worrying the same thing. But Pisces seemed to have done an okay job on the skeleton. Still, she’d keep an eye on it.
It was useful, but she still didn’t quitetrust it.
Erin clapped her hands together. The skeleton whirled around and then relaxed when it saw only Erin.
“Okay, good job. Show me the fruits—actually, I’m gonna teach you how to sort them. Then we’ll go back to the inn.”
——
Erin showed the skeleton where to place the basket of blue fruits and then stretched.
“Alright. Chores are mostly done. Now what?”
The skeleton stared at Erin. It certainly wasn’t going to come up with ideas on its own.
“I could go to the city.”
Erin mused, eying the skeleton. She really didn’t want to leave it alone just yet, but there was a lot more to do in Liscor than here. She was wondering if she could give the skeleton a simple task—like gathering Acid Flies from the traps—when she heard the door open.
She and the skeleton looked around. Erin saw Pawn and two Workers step through the doorway. She smiled and waved at them. The skeleton had a different reaction. It opened its jaw, and the twin flames in its skull flared.
“——!”
The skeleton charged Pawn and the two Antinium with a wordless, rattling whisper-shout. It was a sound that sounded like someone sighing, only far louder.
Pawn and the two Workers froze, uncertain. They backed into one another, but they were too big to slip out the door. The skeleton leapt at them—
“Hey!”
Erin’s fist caught the skeleton in the head and knocked the skull clean off the rest of the body. Pawn and the Workers stopped. The skeleton flailed around wildly. Then it stopped. Erin stared at it and groaned.
Oh no, she’d just broken the only magical tool she had! Again!She was about to curse when she saw the skeleton hadn’t collapsed like she thought it would. The body was still flailing its arms, and Erin saw it twisting about. Searching for…the skull?
Its head had rolled beneath a table. The skeleton’s body seemed to know where it was. Erin watched as it blundered over to its head, knocking over chairs and running into tables.
The skeleton picked up its head and placed it back on its neck. The lights reappeared in its eyes, and it stared at Erin.
“Bad!”
Erin didn’t know why she was talking to the skeleton like it was a dog. She pointed at it.
“You donot attack them. Got it?”
The skeleton hesitated and then nodded. The light in its eyes dimmed. Erin stared at it another second and then turned to Pawn.
“Sorry about that. I’ve got, uh, a skeleton problem.”
Pawn inclined his head.
“I bear no offense, Erin. And I thank you for protecting us.”
The two Workers bowed their heads as well. Erin waved her hands.
“No, it’s my fault. I just got this skeleton-thing, and I—sorry. Um, come on in.”
Awkwardly, she stood aside to let Pawn and the other Workers file into the inn. They glanced at the skeleton, who was still watching them. Erin stalked over and poked at the skeleton until it moved away.
“Right, how can I help you guys?”
“We have come to play chess if you are willing, Erin Solstice. We would also purchase flies for consumption.”
“Sure. No problem!”
Erin moved towards the kitchen and stopped. She pointed at the skeleton.
“Stay. There. Don’t do anything.”
When she returned with a heaping bowl of dead flies and blue juice, the Antinium had already chosen a table and set up a game of chess. Erin sat with them and began playing Pawn. It was a quick game as he’d tried a new move, which failed spectacularly. But Erin helped show him a better way to attack the enemy with the knight piece and let the other two Workers challenge her one by one.
As she played, she talked with Pawn.
“What’s happening with the Antinium? Are you guys bothered by all the Humans in the city as well?”
Pawn shook his head, watching as Erin started collecting the Worker’s pieces one by one.
“We work. We live. We die. All is unchanged among the Workers, Erin Solstice. But we hear of—things. Something happens below.”
“Below? You mean where the Queen lives?”
Pawn hesitated. The two Workers looked up at him and then down at the board.
“Yes. Our Queen moves. She is doing—something. We do not know what it is, but we sense it. And there is another Prognugator.”
Erin’s hand froze over a piece. Then she moved it.
“Really? Another one? This Prog—this guy, he’s taken over Klbkch’s old job?”
“Yes. He guards the Hive and watches. But no Worker has seen him yet. He walks above.”
“Right. Um. Right.”
Distracted, Erin lost a knight before she got back on track. She quickly crushed both Workers and then sighed.
“Okay. Good game, guys. You’re getting better.”
Pawn nodded.
“We level quickly. It is rare for Workers to level. We owe you a debt, Erin Solstice.”
“Really? I didn’t do much.”
“You teach. You help. You care. We know, and we learn from you how to be Human.”
Erin grinned mirthlessly.
“Being Human isn’tthat great. But I’m glad I can help a bit.”
She suddenly had a thought. She glanced sideways at Pawn.
“And maybe you could help me? I’d like to hire you and the other Workers—if you’ve got time. I know this is your break day, but—”
Pawn shook his head.
“We would be happy to assist. What do you desire?”
“Bathroom.”
Pawn tilted its head.
“Bathroom?”
“I mean an outhouse.”
Erin tried to explain. She pointed outside.
“Right now I, uh—I have to dig a hole. Which isn’t fun. I don’t know if the Antinium have to go to the bathroom, but us Humans like a nice toilet seat.”
“Toilet seat?”
“…Never mind. How do Antinium, uh, excrete? Do you have anything like a bathroom?”
“We have designated areas where waste is accumulated. We recycle such products within the Hive.”
“Ah. Um. Humansdon’t do that. Ever. And I’d really like a bathroom. Nothing fancy.”
Pawn and the two Workers nodded.
“We are familiar with the construction of such facilities. It would be a simple task to construct one for you. I am a [Carpenter]. Level 1.”
She recalled him saying that. But hadn’t he told her he was Level 1 a while back? He hadn’t levelled up since? Erin had passed her first level on, like, the second day of the job. Antinium really didn’t level. Erin blinked and then smiled.
“Oh. That’s—great. I’ve got some wood around back and nails and stuff. I can get more if you need it. Do you, um, need anything special?”
“We are Antinium. Building is in our nature.”
Sometimes, it was really hard to keep the conversation flowing with Pawn. Erin cleared her throat awkwardly.
“And how much will I owe you?”
Pawn hesitated.
“We would not wish to charge you for this service.”
Again, Erin wasn’t sure what to say to that. She thought for a moment.
“Tell you what—I’ll feed you and your friends for the rest of the week if you build it for me, no charge.”
Since there were four days left in the week, Erin thought this was a fair offer. Pawn apparently did too, because he nodded.
“It is agreed. We will begin at once.”
As one, the three Antinium stood up. They marched over to the door. Erin got up and then remembered. She turned her head and saw the skeleton still standing where she had left it.
“As for you—”
Erin glared at the skeleton. It didn’t quite flinch back from her.
“Donot attack my guests, got it? Not unless they’re attacking me or doing something dangerous. Otherwise, I’ll have the Workers toss you in the outhouse and bury you. Got it?”
The skeleton meekly nodded. Erin turned away.
“Okay, let’s get to work. Try not to get in the way.”
——
No matter how many times Erin saw it, she was always impressed by how efficient the Antinium were at…well…anything really. As soon as she’d chosen a good spot for the outhouse—just a little ways away from the inn where untoward smells wouldn’t be blown towards her—they immediately began excavating dirt and laying the groundwork for the outhouse.
Fortunately, Erin still had quite a bit of spare wood left over. And Pawn knew a good place to buy quality wood, so she gave them some money and let them go at it. She might have had a [Basic Crafting] as a Skill, but that didn’t mean she was good at constructing things. An outhouse was a bit beyond her capabilities.
And apparently, the Antinium didn’t need Skills, at least not for something like this. They were just good at building things, and their bodies were naturally suited for tasks like digging and machining. Four arms were better than two.
The outhouse was a simple affair, at least by modern toilet standards. A solid wood building stood upright, shielding its sole occupant from weather and prying eyes while a small pit caught whatever fell down through the toilet hole. It was functional, sturdy, and that was all Erin needed at the moment.
It took them all day, but Erin supposed Workers didn’t need to be fast. Then again, was building an outhouse from scratch really hard? Pawn and the Workers kept talking about a foundation whenever she brought them Acid Flies for a snack.
The skeleton scurried around, pushing dirt out of the way for the Antinium, refilling Erin’s water buckets, and checking her Acid Fly traps. She had to explain to it how to do everything the first time, which was a major pain, but once she had, the skeleton remembered how to do it.
Erin had to admit—grudgingly—that the skeleton was quite useful. It was efficient, in that it didn’t stop to take breaks or complain like a certain Human. Thanks to it, her inn was fully ready when the sun started lowering in the sky and the evening rush began.
Today, Rags and eight Goblins visited Erin’s inn. Then Pisces came by, full of his self-importance, the Antinium walked in and announced they were done with the outhouse, and Gazi appeared out of nowhere.
It was a record-breaking crowd that sat in The Wandering Inn. They barely occupied more than a fifth of the common room, although you wouldn’t know it, spread apart as they were.
Well, it was only to be expected really. The Goblins might not be too afraid of Erin, but Pisces was just another Human to them, and Gazi was bad news walking. They stayed away from her and the skeleton. Erin thought they’d all run when the skeleton opened the door for them, but Rags had kept them from fleeing into the hills.
The Goblins’ reaction had been the normal one. Pisces obviously hadn’t batted an eyelid at the walking skeleton, and the Antinium just treated the skeleton with a certain wariness. When Gazi had seen the skeleton, she’d just blinked her massive eye and frowned for a bit without comment. Now she kept staring from the skeleton to Pisces as she ate, but she didn’t directly engage the [Necromancer] in conversation.
So all of Erin’s guests sat more or less in their own bubble. The Antinium played more chess, Pisces scarfed down food, Gazi watched, the Goblins ate and chattered amongst themselves, and none of them talked with each other.
But they all spoke to Erin. Or at least—the Goblins grunted at her, and Rags nodded or shook her head when Erin talked. But everyone else talked to her.
“I noticed your new building. I take it is meant to act as a bathroom?”
Erin grinned at Gazi. She pointed at Pawn and the other Workers.
“Yeah. They just put it up today. Isn’t it great? Now I don’t have to keep squatting in the grass. Ahem.”
Gazi smiled as Erin coughed and blushed a bit.
“It is useful. Although I would warn you that maintaining such a spot can be difficult. You did well to build it away from water and your inn. I’ve seen many killed over fouling water, accidentally or not.”
Erin blinked a few times before nodding. Pisces seemed to be developing a third ear in his corner, but Erin just gestured to the Antinium.
“Pawn told me about all the problems an outhouse causes. They smell. And they attract flies. But I think I can solve that problem with the world’s greatest cleaning fluid.”
Gazi raised her single eyebrow, smiling slightly.
“And what would that be?”
“Acid. I have more than I can use, and it eats through anything that’s not stone or metal or glass really fast. I toss a bit of that in there every morning and voilà! Problem solved!”
Gazi blinked again. From his table, Pisces looked up and shook his head.
“Once again, your fascination with such a dangerous substance is alarming at best, Miss Solstice. I trust you at least have a few healing potions prepared for the day when you drop the acid on your person?”
Erin glared at him.
“I’m not going to be the one carrying jars of acid around. Too dangerous. I’ll make that guy do it instead.”
Erin pointed at the skeleton, who had just returned with another basket of blue fruit. She gestured to the kitchen, and it speedily walked inside.
Pisces stared at the skeleton incredulously.
“Are you—making it gatherfruits? And you want to make it clean your outhouse? You do realize it is here for your protection, do you not?”
“Sure, sure. But it’s more useful helping out around the inn.”
Pisces scowled at Erin as she swept around with a refill of blue juice.
“That is awarrior skeleton, designed for combat.”
She glared back and filled his glass up with water.
“It’s weaker than I am! I punched it this morning, and its head came clean off!”
Pisces turned red and gave Erin what she recognized as his prelude-to-sulking expression.
“My creation is a work of art, but it must grow to its full potential first. It is not meant to be used for menial labor.”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“Menial labor is about all it’s good for. If I sent it out to try and kill one of those Rock Crabs, it’d get squashed in a heartbeat. You’re a hotshot [Necromancer], aren’t you? Can’t you raise a Level 15 skeleton or something?”
Pisces shook his head.
“I could certainly create a stronger undead—but not a higher level one. Do you—do you not understand the significance of this skeleton?”
“No. Is it that special?”
He blinked at her.
“Ah. Well, it is.”
Gazi spoke up. Her eye strayed towards the skeleton, which paused as it brought bowls of Acid Flies out for the Antinium. She murmured into her drink.
“A Level 1 [Skeleton Warrior].”
Pisces nodded. Gazi blinked at him and tipped her cup in some sort of acknowledgement. Erin didn’t get it, but Pisces appeared incredibly smug and self-satisfied all of a sudden. Right up until he saw Gazi staring at him. Then he went white.
Yet all Gazi Pathseeker did was lift a cup to her lips. She addressed Pisces and Erin at the same time.
“I would not mention that fact ever again were I you two. Either of you. Even that Drake would behead the [Necromancer] for this.”
“And you won’t? I thought you were a famous adventurer…”
Gazi’s smile was pointed, and her large eye flickered to Pisces, who looked ready to run. Yet she just shook her head slightly, sending her braided hair swaying.
“I do not care. If anything…it may suit me very well. Nor am I of this continent or Terandria. Mine is a different land, and I have known [Necromancers] and their kind. An accomplishment is an accomplishment.”
This time, Erin had to ask. She leaned over the table.
“You said you saw people stabbed over fouling water? So your place is like—desert-y?”
Pisces snorted, and Gazi gave Erin a frown as if trying to tell if Erin was making fun of her.
“Chandrar is not entirely desert, but my adopted homeland borders a vast desert, yes. Hence my familiarity with what this young [Necromancer] has done. But even Khelt’s King would call it extraordinary. If he did not behead that one for the deed.”
Pisces looked uncertain whether or not he should be sick or pleased, and Erin decided she should drop the topic.
“Fine. It’s great. But I still wish it was stronger.”
She grumbled her way around the room, topping off glasses with her pitcher. Pisces looked relaxed enough to focus on his meal. Only after a good few minutes had passed and he was engrossed in wolfing down pasta did Gazi stop Erin again. She murmured to her as Erin passed by her table, and Erin saw her twisting a brooch that had been hidden in her armor.
The airdulled or felt heavy, and Erin felt a strange hush in the air. Pisces didn’t seem to notice, though Rags frowned at Erin and picked at one ear with a claw. Gazi spoke louder, then, gesturing to her meal, though her words didn’t match her actions.
“So, how did you meet that young man? Where does he hail from?”
“Pisces?”
Erin glanced at Pisces. He was smiling at his skeleton as it moved about the room.
“Oh, he’s just this weird guy I met a while ago. He’s—well, I guess he’s a good mage. Does necromancy stuff, but the skeleton is the first undead thing I’ve ever seen him do. He also does other spells. Why?”
Gazi stared at Pisces, and then her eye moved away as he looked towards her. She nodded imperceptibly at him as she let Erin fill her glass.
“He is—talented.”
“Oh.”
Gazi nodded. After a moment, Erin shrugged and walked away. Really, what were you supposed to say to that?
——
About an hour had passed, and Erin was continuing to innkeep while her patrons ate, chatted, and, occasionally, used the new outhouse. Gazi didn’t do much from her seat, but her main eye kept following Pisces, the skeleton, and Erin.
Then, as the sun began to touch the mountains and the light truly began to fade from the sky, Gazi’s main eye swiveled towards one window. She tapped her lips and then smiled again.
Erin noticed the half-Gazer getting up and leaving coins on the table. Gazi nodded to her as Erin bustled over.
“Pardon me, Erin, but I must attend to some business. I will return shortly.”
“Oh, sure. Have fun?”
Gazi smiled and left quickly. Erin shrugged and went back to serving. About ten minutes later, she heard someone knocking at the door.
“Come in!”
The door opened. Erin turned with a smile.
“Hey, welcome!”
The male, Human adventurer who opened the door smiled broadly at her.
“Thank you. Me and my friends were looking for a place to stay and—”
He caught sight of Rags and the Goblins first. The adventurer swore and grabbed at this sword.
“Goblins!”
Erin’s stomach lurched. The adventurer fell back, and his two companions—two other burly adventurers in armor—immediately seized their weapons. Rags and her crew looked up, suddenly tense. Pawn and the Workers froze in their game. Pisces was already gone.
“No, no, wait! Don’t do anything!”
Dropping her pitcher of juice on a table, Erin ran forwards, putting herself between the adventurers and the Goblins.
“They’re friendly! Don’t attack!”
The first adventurer stared at her. He was wearing a metal helmet that made his head look vaguely pot-shaped.
“What are you, crazy? They’reGoblins!”
His two friends shifted behind him. One exclaimed as he caught sight of Pawn and the Workers.
“It’s the bugs! And—askeleton?”
The first adventurer was white in the face, whether with rage or fear it was hard to tell. He glared at Erin, hand tight on his sword hilt.
“What’s going on here?”
“Look, everyone chill! Calm down! These Goblins are peaceful. Didn’t you read the sign—?”
The third adventurer, a huge man who dwarfed the other two, turned red in the face. He growled at Rags and her Goblins, all of whom were standing, weapons raised.
“Shut up! Those creatures aren’tpeaceful. They’re monsters! I’ve lost good friends to them!”
He went for his axe. Erin grabbed his hand.
“No, wait—let me—”
“Get off!”
The burly adventurer growled and threw Erin off him. He shoved her back, and Erin crashed into a table. She blinked stupidly up at the ceiling as the world spun for a moment. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw a flash of movement.
The adventurers were moving towards the Goblins, weapons raised, when the skeleton leapt over a table, charged the first adventurer, and smashed into him. The undead skeleton was unarmed, but it just raised one bony fist and sunk it straight into the helmeted adventurer’s head.
The metal faceguard caught the skeleton, but it couldn’t protect the man from being bowled over as the skeleton rushed him. The undead kicked, and the sword flew out of the man’s hands. He cursed as the two other adventurers spread out. One of his friends pulled out his sword, but suddenly Rags and the other Goblins covered him.
The big adventurer roared and raised his axe, but Erin tackled him. She tried to pull his arm down, but he was like a piece of granite. He punched her in the side, and Erin fell off him. Thathurt. Not as much as being stabbed, but she couldn’t breathe. He snarled at her, and then Pawn was in front of him. The Antinium swung two fists on his left side, and the adventurer stumbled backwards.
The adventurer on the floor cursed and swung at the skeleton, trying to get to his feet. The skeleton leaned back as the adventurer swung wildly. When it punched the man in the side of the head, he didn’t shift much. But the skeleton punched and punched andpunched—
The helmeted adventurer caught the skeleton’s foot as it swung at his head. He growled and heaved upwards, and the skeleton toppled over. Then he reached for his sword.
His hand had just closed over the hilt when Erin walked over and kicked him in the side of the head. Down he went again, considerably harder than when the skeleton had hit him.
She looked around. The second man was fighting with the Goblins, slashing at them while they danced around the chairs and tables. He didn’t have any room to swing, but they had a lot more freedom. They lunged at him, cutting his legs, battering him with clubs, throwing plates at his face—
A Worker crashed into a table next to Erin. It lay on its back, stunned, before it got up. She looked over. The big adventurer was fighting all three Antinium at once as they surrounded him.
He swung at Pawn, but Pawn caught both fists and then hit back with two more. The big adventurer blinked and then shoved the Antinium back. Pawn went flying, but two more Workers closed in. He battered at them, but the Antinium were far tougher than they were strong.
It was all a mess. Erin didn’t know what to do, but when one of the adventurers grabbed Rags and threw her to the ground, she moved. He stomped on her stomach once as the Goblin cried out in agony. Erin raised her fist, and then the skeleton smashed the adventurer in the back of the head with a chair.
Down he went. Now only the biggest adventurer was left, but he was somehow managing to take on all comers by himself. He hit one of the Workers in the chest so hard the Antinium’s carapacecracked and then punched the skeleton into the ground before kicking the undead in the chest. Two ribs shattered as the Goblins swarmed around the man.
Erin hesitated and then ran inside the kitchen. She came out with a heavy object in her hands, just in time to see the skeleton crashing into another table, the axe buried in its chest.
The biggest adventurer kicked a Goblin several feet, backhanded Pawn, and snarled. He turned, and the flying frying pan cracked him straight in the forehead. Erin felt like she’d wrenched her shoulder with that throw, but her Skill had placed the pan right where she wanted it to go.
The fight was over. Erin still had to call the skeleton back and stop Rags and her Goblins from knifing the downed adventurers. The skeleton was trying to stomp on the helmeted man while Pawn and the other two Workers picked each other up and assessed their injuries.
Erin stared around the inn. She looked at her skeleton, with the axe hanging out of its shattered rib cage, the injured Goblins, the downed adventurer trio, Pawn and his injured workers, and then at her common room. Half the tables and chairs were splintered beyond repair, and all of her food and dishes had been strewn about the room.
She felt like crying. But the first adventurer was starting to wake up. Erin stared at the groaning men on the floor and pointed at the skeleton.
“You. Bucket.”
It hesitated and then marched into the kitchen. Erin looked around. She walked over and picked up the frying pan.
——
The cold splash of water woke up all three men in one go. They spluttered into wakefulness, gasping, only to realize they weren’t drowning. Instead, they were on the floor of an inn.
The three adventurers stared up into the face of justice. In this case, it was the back of a cast iron frying pan. Erin stood over them, flanked by a group of Goblins on her left and a Skeleton and three of the horrific ant-monsters known as Antinium on her right.
“You wrecked my inn.”
Erin stared down at the three men. She was trembling. Half with nerves, but the other half was sheer rage.
“You—”
The helmeted adventurer hesitated. He struggled to get to his feet, feeling for his sword. He saw it in the skeleton’s hands. He pointed a trembling finger at the skeleton, backing away as his two friends got to their feet.
“What kind of innis this? It’s full of monsters!”
“They’re not monsters! These Goblins are myguests, and no one hurts them here! Didn’t you read the sign?”
The biggest adventurer lumbered to his feet. His fists were clenched, and he was red down to his neck. Rags and the other Goblins retreated from him, but Erin saw Rags pulling out a jar full of green liquid. She shook her head at the Goblin.
“You’re crazy! You—you freak! You’re feedin’ these freaks that kill Humans! And you’re feedin’bugs and an undead monster! We oughta burn this place down and turn you in to the City Watch!”
“Burn down my inn? I don’t think so.”
Erin gripped the handle of the frying pan tighter. The Antinium loomed behind her, and the two smaller adventurers stepped back.
“Youbitch!”
The big adventurer shouted at Erin. His spit practically covered the skeleton interposing itself between Erin and him.
“This ain’t over! We’re gonna round up all the adventurers in the city and come back here. Then we’ll see if you want to protect these freaks!”
“I don’t believe that will happen.”
Someone tapped the big adventurer on the shoulder. He whirled around, threw a fist, and nearly screamed as a grip like steel crushed his wrist.
Gazi the Omniscient stared at the adventurer she had caught like an entomologist studying an insect caught in their backyard. Without much interest, she flicked the man’s hand away. When she turned to look at Erin, she smiled slightly.
“Erin Solstice. You are full of surprises.”
Erin blinked.
“Oh. Gazi.”
The two adventurers behind the big man reacted to the half-Gazer’s name—and her eye—but the bigger man was still caught up in his rage.
“If yer gonna protect this monster-loving b—”
Gazi didn’t move. She didn’t move, but her eyetwitched. Its yellow pupil seemed to widen and glow for a moment, and Erin felt a flash of unease. Gazi was suddenly terrifying for no real reason. And she wasn’t even looking at Erin. The effect on the adventurers—particularly the big man—was immediate. They shuddered, paled, and backed away from her.
“No one will attack this inn. Or I will find you and you will suffer. And you will all leave now.”
Helmet adventurer shuddered. His eyes flicked to his sword, still in the skeleton’s hand.
“But—”
Gazi’s eye swiveled, and her large yellow pupil fixed on the adventurer’s face, and the words stopped.
“In the name of Reim—begone.”
The adventurer stared for one second into Gazi’s large eye. Then he ran. He didn’t say a word, and his friends ran after him, legs and arms pumping. Erin watched them race down the hill so fast one tripped and went flying, but they got up and kept running even after slamming into the ground. Gazi just turned to Erin and smiled with her lips closed as if nothing had happened.
“I am glad that you are unharmed.”
“What?”
Erin blinked at Gazi stupidly and then realized she was still holding her frying pan. Lamely, she put it on a table.
“Um, thanks. Really. You saved us there.”
Gazi flicked her hand dismissively.
“I merely prevented them from causing more trouble. But you would have handled them most admirably had I not been here.”
Her smaller eyes moved around the room.
“Still, I see that they have caused much damage. I apologize. I should have forced them to repay you for the damages.”
“Oh, it’s nothing—”
Erin broke off. Rags limped over to her, clutching at her stomach and poked her in the side. The Goblin offered Erin a bag of coins.
“Oh. Oops?”
Rags shrugged at Erin and then winced. She clutched at her stomach where the adventurer had stomped on her. Erin immediately forgot about the money. She bent down, staring anxiously at the Goblin.
“Are you okay? I have some healing potions I could split—”
Rags shook her head. Clutching at her ribs, she pulled something out of her pouch. A healing potion. The Goblin pulled the stopper out and drank a mouthful of the purple, brackish liquid.
Erin was sure the Goblin didn’t own any healing potions. She was also sure that it wasn’t her healing potion or Gazi’s. She looked at the other Goblins and saw they were doing the same with a few healing potions as well. She knew exactly where they’d come from.
The adventurers had come here with belt pouches and carry bags along with their armor and weapons. And while they’d left with their armor, it seemed someone had cut away their belts and bags of healing potions while they’d been downed. The Goblins were already fighting over the spoils.
Erin had a feeling that she was going to get the blame for most—all of that. But right now, looking at the injured people in her inn, she didn’t really care.
“Here.”
She righted a table and made Pawn and the injured Workers sit down. Erin found some bandages in her packs, helped pull the axe out of the skeleton’s rib cage, and let Pisces get to work on the skeleton. It seemed he had been invisible during the entire confrontation.
She was so busy attending her friends—saying thank you and feeding them a second dinner—that she never noticed that Gazi had left the inn.
——
Gazi the Omniscient travelled back to Liscor, the ground blurring beneath her feet. She had no further business at The Wandering Inn at the moment. Erin Solstice was too busy attending to her wounded patrons for conversation, and Gazi had seen all she needed.
More importantly, she had found one. At last, she had found one. And not just one.
“Two.”
She smiled to herself. She’d searched far and wide for individuals worthy of waking up her lord and liege. For years. And she had despaired. But now she had found one. Not just one; two.
“A mysterious child with a unique Skill, and a [Necromancer] who can create new undead.”
Erin Solstice. She was unlike any Human Gazi had met before, save one. She had met only one other being who could unify so many races outside of her own. And that she had stepped in to protect them against her own kind only made her rarer in Gazi’s opinion.
But there was more to her than even that. Erin’s origins, her ways of thinking, and yes, even the [Immortal Moment] Skill Gazi had never seen on an individual before were all unique. She was worthy. The mage was also worthy, but in a different way. He was simply a genius.
“But she is different.”
Gazi frowned, letting her single eyelid droop over her central eye. Yes, Erin Solstice was different. She passed through the city gates, nodding at the guard who stared at her and slowed to walk idly through the streets.
Erin Solstice. She was the one, and if Gazi had to choose, it would be her. But it was better not to choose. Better to wait and lay plans. Gazi could act now of course, but if she wanted to do this properly, it would take time.
Time and patience were both things Gazi did not have, but she did not want to ruin things now, right when she had found not one, but two worthy beings. She yearned to begin, but patience—patience was a virtue she had learned to practice.
Yes, perhaps it was better to wait. She had come far over the course of thousands of miles and countless years. Her King still slept; he would wait a while longer to be woken. Those she brought must be truly worthy of his attention. Yet she had a good feeling this time.
At the very least, Fetohep of Khelt alone would pay a king’s ransom for Pisces—a [King]’s ransom a hundred times over. Whether he made the boy rich or had him executed—that alone might be enough to wake her King. Perhaps. Perhaps…though Fetohep had every reason not to want her King to wake.
As Gazi walked through the streets, she noticed she was being followed. She kept her main eye straight ahead, but her lesser eyes could detect movement around her. Gnolls. Two shadowed her at a distance, pretending to be late-night shoppers and pedestrians going home.
No doubt they were courtesy of a certain Gnoll [Shopkeeper]. She had doubtless organized them to tail Gazi, unaware perhaps of the half-Gazer’s ability to see all. Or perhaps she knew and was letting Gazi know she was being watched. Either way, it mattered little. The Gnolls were the least experienced of Gazi’s watchers, but they were hardly the only ones keeping an eye on her.
Pallass had sent their observers…for a time until they realized the cost was too high. They had their own kind of watcher, the Cyclops, though his role and Gazi’s—and their natures—were far different. She had passed through his realm mostly quietly. He knew better than to make unnecessary foes.
But it was the Gnolls’ presence that decided Gazi. Not because they were dangerous, but because it meant there was more to Erin than even her eyes could uncover. She would wait. Wait, and learn more about this strange Human. Perhaps there was another worthy one. Three was better than two.
As Gazi passed by the market street, she noticed a flicker of movement. A small Human grabbed several items from a stall while the shopkeeper was looking the other way. Gazi pretended not to see, but one of her lesser eyes tracked the female Human as she darted away.
The thief ducked out of sight in the alleyway, but Gazi’s eye wasn’t weak enough to be stopped by mere objects like walls at close range. Her large eye moved, and she saw not only the thief’s figure, but her name and nature. Such was the power of Gazi’s eye.
But in this case, Gazi was disappointed. She shook her head.
“Ah. Just a [Princess].”
She turned her eye away. She had no time for Human royalty. Petty lords and princesses of small nations could not arouse her ruler’s interest.
Gazi cast her eye upwards. She saw the changing winds and, miles overhead, saw the cold front sweeping in at speeds even her eye had trouble tracking. Yes, winter was coming. And quickly too. This land had few seasons save for the rainy one, but the fell chill would still freeze the land for a week at least. Time, then, to wait and observe both Humans.
“Yes, time.”
The adventurers had been a stroke of good luck. Their foolishness had given Gazi plenty of insight into Erin’s nature. She would ensure no reprisals came—at least in the form of a mob—but she would continue watching Erin Solstice.
She wanted to knoweverything about her.
——
Erin sat in her inn, staring at the recently cleaned room. Half of the tables and chairs were now fireplace fuel, but at least the spilled food and broken dishes had been cleaned up. She’d buy new ones from Krshia tomorrow.
Everyone was gone. They’d limped off or walked back to the city or, in Pisces’ case, done his disappearing act. They were gone, and Erin was left alone.
With the skeleton, of course.
It was fully repaired and sweeping up dust. Erin stared at it as it worked. It paused as it glanced up and saw her staring.
“Yeah. You don’t like it either, huh?”
After a moment, the skeleton got back to work. It stood up, dustpan in hand, and walked outside to dump the dust. Then it came back in and stood to attention, staring at Erin.
She sighed. The skeleton looked at her expectantly.
“Skeletons. You know, I hated biology class in school. The skeleton there creeped me out, and it didn’t move around all the time.”
No response. Well, Erin was getting used to that.
“I don’t like dead things. And I don’t really trust you.”
The light in the skeleton’s eyes dimmed for a second. Erin sighed again.
“But. I guess you’re alright.”
The flickering sparks in the skeleton’s eyes ignited. Erin nodded to herself.
“I’ll keep you after all. You’re useful, and you can fight. Sorta. Just don’t do anything stupid, got it?”
After a beat, the skeleton nodded obediently.
“Cool. Now I guess—I guess you’ll need a name?”
No response. But the skeleton seemed expectant. Erin scratched her head. She really needed to sleep, but this was important.
“What would be a good name for a skeleton? Papyrus…? Nah. You’re not nearly cool enough for that.”
The skeleton didn’t react. Erin tilted her head, thinking hard. She snapped her fingers.
“I guess I’ll just call you Clatter. No—Claptrap! But even you’re not half as annoying as that…thing.”
Erin scratched at her head as she began pacing around the room. The skeleton’s fiery, blue eyes followed her as she began throwing names out at random.
“Mr. Bones? Way too generic. How about Carnage? But that sounds horrible. Silent Steve…? No. Smitty Werbenjagermanjensen? Too long.”
After a while, the skeleton turned around and walked upstairs. It still had the order to clean, and it supposed upstairs counted as ‘the inn’. So the skeleton began cleaning a decade’s worth of accumulated filth from the ceiling as it heard Erin still talking to herself down below.
“How about Napoleon? But you’re not short. Skeletron? But I’d get confused. Paul Hendrickson the Fifth? Whitey? Wait, is that racist?”
The skeleton quite deliberately tuned Erin’s voice out of its head, at least as far as it could ignore the voice of its master. It scrubbed the ceiling with the fragment of the dustrag hard, wishing—as much as itcould wish—that it held a weapon instead. Erin had made it leave the sword and axe in the kitchen while it was cleaning.
It had no will. Skeletons weren’t supposed to have free will. But they weren’t supposed to level either, and the [Skeleton Warrior] was now Level 2. It didn’t know how to feel about that. It had one function: to serve. If leveling helped in that capacity, it would level.
It just wished Erin would stop talking.
“Bojangles. Bonerama. Bonehead. Friedman? Spinal Tap. Harambe. Jack? Jack Sparrow? Jack Skellington?Mr. Skeleton? Smiley Face?”
A pause. The skeleton did not sigh in relief.
“…Mike?”
[Innkeeper Level 13!]
[Skill – Loud Voice obtained!]
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T03:39:20)
LEAVE YOUR TYPOS HERE
juppie (2023-03-15T16:16:00)
She might have hada [Basic Crafting] as a Skill,
–>
She might have had [Basic Crafting] as a Skill,
Darby (2023-03-21T18:26:36)
He caught sight of Rags and the Goblins first. The adventurer swore and grabbed at this sword.
Grabbed at his* sword.
Deli (2023-04-14T01:04:22)
There goes Mr Bones
greycat (2023-07-22T19:18:09)
> I take it is meant to act as a bathroom?
I take it it’s meant to… or I take it it is meant to…
Salamander (2023-08-12T10:38:02)
“But it was the Gnolls’ presence that decided Gazi”  I think something’s missing here, or decide is the wrong verb
Broock (2023-11-19T19:06:13)
Erin a probablement joué à Fear & Hunger, d’où sa grande méfiance envers le squelette. Après tout qui sait si Pisces n’avait pas raté son jet de pile ou face?
Beaucoup(trop?) de références dans la recherche de nom du squelette.
Qrad (2024-04-07T18:26:06)
*sigh*Magnolia at least was subtle and underhanded. Gazi will totally snatch Erin and toss her at her King, won’t she?
Drifter (2024-04-20T05:13:27)
IS THAT A MOTHERFUCKING UNDERTALE REFERENCE?!?!
Jack (2024-07-04T01:59:53)
And a borderlands2 reference
Mr anderson (2024-09-05T03:29:42)
She doesn’t know it but her goals already accomplished, my guess is the messenger the king sent out will arrive just before or after she acts
Tashadon (2025-01-07T20:21:26)
Wipe the head
think it should be side of the head

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.45
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-45/

Erin sat with Rags and stared at the mage in her inn. Scattered around the trio was a mess of empty dishes, remnants of a large breakfast.
Ryoka sat in a small room in the Adventurer’s Guild in Esthelm and waited as the half-Elven mage got ready in front of her.
They were separated by many miles in distance, but the two young women had both asked the same question. One had woken up and bribed her mage with food and invited a Goblin to learn. The other had run through the night and arrived tired and sweaty to knock on the [Mage]’s door and ask to be taught.
The mages were different as well. One was a partly Human woman who appeared only slightly older than Ryoka, but whose appearance hinted at something timeless, and whose beauty attracted the eye. But these were only hints, and her beauty was as much due to her heritage as her physical appearance. Yet for all that, she was a rare sight in any nation: a half-Elven mage named Ceria. She answered the door chewing on some dry jerky.
The other mage was Pisces. His gray and dirty robes were as always stained by grass, weather, and the dark places where he roamed. He still had spilled egg on one sleeve of his robes. He was graceful enough too, in his way. He walked well, but he hid any of his good qualities behind the hunched, filthy hermit crab he sometimes resembled.
Different mages, different seekers, and different locations. But the questions asked and answered were mostly the same. Because the nature of the questions revolved around magic, and both mages had studied together, once.
——
At last, Pisces finished the bit of toasted bread and cheese. He flicked the last crumbs onto the floor. Erin glared, but he was as always unimpressed by her ire. He sighed and then looked at Erin and the Goblin sitting next to her.
“If we are to do this, must we include the Goblin?”
Erin’s glare transitioned into a scowl.
“Her name is Rags.”
Pisces raised his eyebrows.
“That is the name you gave her, certainly. Her Goblin name may be unpronounceable to you and I, but I suspect she objects to your pet name as much as I do.”
Rags stared at Pisces. He avoided her gaze—mostly because he’d lost the last three staring contests in a row. Erin glowered, folding her arms.
“It’s better than calling her ‘Goblin’. Besides, she doesn’t mind it. Right, Rags?”
Erin glanced sideways quickly. Rags didn’t exactly avoid her gaze as she stared pointedly at Pisces.
“Ahem. Names aside, why is shehere? You asked me to teach you magic.”
“Right, and I thought she’d like to learn too.”
Rags nodded. Pisces sighed and rubbed at his face.
“It is just—may I state my objections now? Magic is not a game or a ‘trick’. I took your request seriously in no small way because I believed you had a genuine desire to learn. Well, the Goblin might wish for the same, but this is no trivial matter. Will you promise to take this seriously?”
“As serious as pie.”
Erin smiled as Pisces glared at her. Then she yelped as Rags jabbed Erin in the side with one cracked fingernail. The girl glared at the small Goblin. The Goblin glared back.
“Fine, fine. Iam taking this seriously, Pisces. And I do want to know. So teach me? Please?”
Pisces hesitated.
——
“—Of course I could teach you, Ryoka. And I’d be happy to help—but I have to ask, what brought this on?”
Ceria bustled around the small room she’d rented in the Adventurer’s Guild, hunting for her wand among her strewn-about possessions. She was messy. She chewed on the strip of dried meat as she hunted, kicking over boots, finding a book under her bed covers—
“How long have you been staying here?”
“Uh, two days? Gerial’s room is disgusting, you know. He folds his sheets and lines his boots up. Polishes them too. Calruz is almost as bad. You want to stay? The Guild doesn’t like non-adventurers, but we can ask.”
Ceria finally found her wand under her bed. She glanced up at Ryoka.
“You ran through the night to get here? And dodged an…[Assassin]? I really can’t believe that one, but you described a classic [Assassin] perfectly.”
Ryoka perched on the rickety chair and watched as Ceria’s light hazelnut hair caught the sunlight. For all she’d hung out with Ceria before, the half-Elf truly was different in the unearthly feeling she gave off. Ryoka tried not to stare too openly most of the time, but Ceria was too distracted lifting up her mattress and checking under her pillow for her spellbook now to notice Ryoka’s scrutiny.
The barefoot girl tried not to yawn as she thought of a response. At least she wasn’t still sweaty. The Adventurer’s Guild might not have showers, but they did have washbasins and a handy well.
“It’s just something that really interests me. And defending myself is part of it, but I just want to learn about magic. It was not…widely practiced where I come from.”
Ceria’s brows rose, but she let that comment slide, much to Ryoka’s relief. She swished the wand around in the air with a satisfying sound and smiled at Ryoka.
“Fair enough. Just please don’t be disappointed if you don’t start casting [Fireballs] left and right, okay? Most Humans I’ve tried to teach, well, they’re quite impatient. And it’s not as if having a half-Elf teacher makes learning magic any easier.”
“Perish the thought.”
Ceria had offered Ryoka the only chair, and she had to sit on her bed. She placed her wand on the side table next to Ryoka, and the Runner dragged her chair over so they were facing each other.
“Very well, how should I start? I suppose it would be important to learn how much you know of magic.”
Ryoka spread her hands out wordlessly. Ceria shook her head and smiled.
“That simplifies things. Well then, I guess I’ll tell you what magic is.”
——
Pisces stood up from his chair. Once he’d actually agreed to teach Erin, his demeanor changed. He cleared the floor around him and began pacing back and forth. He spoke like one of Erin’s old high school teachers—the fussy, pedantic ones.
“Magic is an art. It is something only the most gifted and dedicated may aspire to. Those who have true mastery of spellcraft create works of beauty and wonder with each incantation.”
——
Ceria shrugged and touched the tip of her wand gently. It gave off a few violet sparks which faded as they drifted to the floor.
“I don’t know what magic is, exactly. It is a mystery, but I can tell you it is in the air we breathe, in each step we take and the beating of our hearts. Animals can grow to massive sizes with magic, and magical environments can be wondrous—like fields of wheat that can sprout from seeds overnight in Noelictus, for instance. It’s an amazing thing, but itis dangerous. Terribly so, and people have long overestimated their control of it.”
——
Pisces pointed at Erin and Rags. He met their gazes seriously.
“Never underestimate magic. Never take it lightly. Even in practice, even when you believe you have mastered a spell to its utmost. Unlike wielding a hammer or a sewing needle, magic is quite capable of slaying an incautious practitioner outright.”
——
Ceria sighed. Her eyes unfocused for a moment, and she stared through Ryoka.
“Once, everyone used to know magic—or so my grandfather told me. It was as simple as breathing even for children, and all half-Elves learned Tier 2 magic before they’d reached their teenage years. But in Human cities and other nations, students study under older mages or travel to schools like Wistram Academy.”
Ryoka frowned. Wistram…she’d heard that name before.
“They run the Mage’s Guilds, right?”
Ceria scowled for a moment, which was odd because she was a graduate from there. But she covered it with a shrug and sigh.
“All over the world. Not that they send their [Mages] to runevery single one, but yes. They help run the [Message] spells, and they’re one of the real teachers of magic. Don’t let the class fool you. A [Mage] can be an adept with lots of training or someone who’s making it up as they go along. Those accredited by Wistram Academy or similar institutions of magic are pretty rare and usually better than the self-taught ones.”
——
Pisces smiled smugly to let both members of his audience know he was rarest of them all. He waved his hand dismissively as he went on.
“[Mages] in general? Pah. Anyone can obtain the class or variations thereof, but they often stagnate and seldom reach Level 20. Indeed, the lack of centralized education between nations has given rise to lesser variations upon the basic [Mage] class. [Hedge Wizards], [Witch Doctors], the dubiously qualified [Spellswords], [Druids]…well I suppose [Druids] are an exception to the rule, and of course let us reserve most of our disdain for the so-called [Sorcerer]…”
At some point, Pisces realized he was losing his audience and stopped. Erin was furiously writing down class names while Rags cleared one ear with her pinkie finger. He paused reluctantly.
“Well, even those types of spell casters are unique. Chosen. They are still capable of casting spells, which is more than can be said for a majority of Humanity or most species.”
——
Ceria sighed and shook her head sadly.
“Not all Humans have the potential to become [Mages]. It’s a matter of talent as well as your body’s innate magical potential.”
Ryoka’s ears metaphorically perked up at that last statement. She frowned at Ceria.
“‘Not all Humans?’ Does that mean that other races have greater or lesser potential to become mages? How about your kind?”
——
Pisces looked disgruntled at Erin’s question. He folded his arms and scowled.
“I assume you mean half-Elves. Yes, their affinity towards spellcasting is far greater than our own.However, a speciesist advantage does not translate into individual ability. Nor does that mean the greatest mages are always nonhuman. In fact, some of the most famous Archmages of this era are Human. Like, er, Verdan Blackwood. Or Archmage Viltach. Great…esteemed [Mages] I have personally met.” 
He coughed into the sleeve of his robes, as if this were not the brag he was trying to make it out to be.
“—Any species can learn magic. But not all members have the potential. From Minotaurs to Dullahans to Centaurs, [Mages] exist. Except Gnolls, of course, but they have their [Shamans].”
“Wait, not Gnolls? Why?”
Pisces gave Erin a blank stare.
“One supposes it is their tribal magic. I have never met a Gnoll at Wistram or a [Mage] of their people in general. They have [Shamans]—another kind of magic-user. But no [Mages] in Wistram. I heard a rumor once—nevermind. Minotaurs can be [Mages]. Anyone can be a [Mage]. But Gnolls. Even Goblins. Is this clear enough for you?”
Erin tried to imagine Minotaurs but just came up with those ancient Greek pictures of bull-headed monsters with Human bodies. She had a hard time imagining one of those things muttering spells or reading a book.
Pisces scowled, and Erin stopped grinning.
“Okay, sure. Not all Humans are mages. Some of us are Muggles. Got it?”
“Muggles?”
“Uh—how about Goblins?”
Pisces sniffed.
“I have never heard of any Goblin whose abilities matched that of a proper mage. Their innate capabilities are likely too low to support the strain of spellcasting. Their race as a whole can barely snuff out a candle, let alone magically.”
Both Rags and Erin sat upright in indignation. Erin opened her mouth, but Rags stuck her finger up first.
Since it wasn’t her middle finger but rather her index, both Pisces and Erin stared at it curiously. Rags muttered a few words in her own language and then glared at her fingertip.
Nothing happened. Erin exchanged a glance with Pisces, and then a spark of light made her blink. She looked at Rags’ finger and gasped. A tiny flame danced on her fingertip. Erin stared at it and then at Rags.
“You can do magic?”
Pisces shook his head. He blew, and the flame on Rags’ finger went out. She narrowed her eyes, but he wasn’t impressed by her magic or her stare.
“Tribal magic. Feh. Just as I said—Gnollsand Goblins have access to another, lesser…different kind of magic.”
“Wait a second.”
Erin was extremely confused.
“Isn’t that magic? Why’d you call it tribal magic?”
Pisces rubbed at his temple.
“I should really ban questions. Well, to summarize a complex issue, the magic your little friend used is not true magic. Or at least, not the magic practiced by [Mages]. It is an amalgamation of mana drawn from her tribe, such as it is.”
Erin stared blankly at Pisces.
“What?”
He sighed and pinched the bridge of his nose.
“Allow me to explain another way. Magic surrounds us. It is in everything, but an individual’s capacity for magic varies. And the same goes for our surroundings. Thus, in a highly magically charged environment, spells are naturally easy to cast. In a null zone, a [Mage] must rely solely on his or her own internal magical energy to cast spells.”
“Right. I got that.”
Pisces nodded. He pointed at Rags, who leaned out of the way of his finger.
“Goblins, on the other hand, practice a different form of magic. They draw their mana not only from the environment, but from each other. Thus a single Goblin may use the mana of the entire tribe it is affiliated with to cast spells.”
Erin snapped her fingers, and Rags jumped. The Goblin stared suspiciously at Erin’s hand and immediately tried to duplicate the gesture.
“Oh, I get it. You’re crowd-sourcing magic.”
Pisces blinked at Erin and then decided to ignore her strange comments and Rags’ attempts to learn to snap her own fingers.
“Yes, well, it is a crude thing. But I suppose it is powerful enough in its own way as it allows even Goblin tribes one or two spellcasters of their own. These, ah, ‘shamans’ draw power from the collective. The larger their group is, the more power they wield. Thus, while the Goblins in the area most likely cannot collectively create more than a few sparks, a larger tribe of a thousand souls would create a decently powerful [Shaman]. But it is inefficient.”
Pisces shook his head.
“A thousand people and only one caster? A ridiculous waste.”
“Hey, if it works…”
He sniffed.
“It isn’t proper magic, that’s all. True, these [Shamans] may copy many magic spells, but they are born out of a collective will and lack structure and form. True, they can do things that modern magic cannot easily replicate. I have heard some [Shamans] can heal or move vast groups of people over water, butmagic—”
“You can walk on water!? And heal? What am I talking to you about, then? Rags, teach me your ways!”
Erin swung around instantly. Pisces scowled at her as the Goblin smirked at him.
“A neophyte in tribal magic and a tiny tribe can hardly do the greatest feats of magic, Erin. Miss Solstice. Nor can one heal in any kind of magic easily.”
“Oh yeah? What about [Healers]?”
Erin thought she made a good point—until she realized Pisces was smirking at her.
“Ah, well. [Healers] are now simply general practitioners of restorative arts, some of whom are able to cast spells. Most use Skills. Many rely on potions or even simple bandages rather than magic. The definition of the class has changed, and accordingly, so have the skills and spells learnt. It was quite a fascinating phenomenon, actually. I studied it in a course back in Wistram—”
Pisces shook his head.
“But I haven’t time to get into the variation in classes over centuries. Where was I? Oh, of course.Magic. Let us not forget what we are here to learn. Very well, I assume you understand a bit of what magic is. Now to test you.”
Pisces raised his hands and suddenly advanced on Rags and Erin. Their chairs scooted back, and he stopped, looking peeved.
“It is not a dangerous process. I simply wish to ascertain whether or not either of you can become mages. I will test you in the traditional style. Do not move, and I will saturate the area around you with raw mana and allow you to demonstrate your magical ability—or lack thereof.”
——
Ryoka eyed Ceria.
“Will it hurt?”
The half-Elf looked up as she fiddled with her wand.
“Oh, of course not. It’s just a test, that’s all. This is how I was taught as a child. I know Humans do it differently, but it should work for you.”
She raised her wand, and the tip of it glowed silvery-white. Ceria smiled to soothe Ryoka’s apprehension.
“Just watch. I’m going to draw a symbol in the air. I want you to look at it and tell me what you see. Don’t worry; there’s no time limit. And if your eyes start to hurt, you can look away.”
Slowly, Ceria began to move her wand through the air, leaving a glowing afterimage that hovered and shimmered in Ryoka’s vision. Ceria’s wand moved and flicked, tracing a pattern that looked like a bunch of squiggles and straight lines put together randomly.
But—it wasn’t just a two dimensional pattern. Ryoka blinked and rubbed at her eyes. Somehow, Ceria’s wand had begun tracing the image in three dimensions. And then the image shifted again, and the rune—or was it a word?—in the air took on more dimensions than could be captured by a camera.
Ryoka thought sheheard the magical word being drawn in the air. Or she felt it. And when Ceria put down her wand, the glowing white symbol burned Ryoka’s vision.
“Just relax. Look at it only as long as you’re comfortable. If you can’t understand it, that’s fine.”
Ceria’s voice came from behind the cloud of shimmering lines. Ryoka opened her eyes and forced herself to focus on the lines.
It was so hard to understand.
——
“I don’t get it.”
Erin complained to Pisces as she held her hands out. The mage grunted. He was holding his hands out as well, palms towards Erin and Rags. Sweat beaded on his forehead, but nothing seemed to be happening.
“I—am infusing the air around you with my mana. It will allow you to cast spells if you have the potential.”
“But how? You never said.”
A vein stood out on Pisces’ sweaty brow. He grunted.
“Just think of something.”
“Like what?”
“Anything! Whatever you wish! Fire, water, a shiny new pot. Will the magic to obey your command!”
——
“Relax. Don’t stare at it so hard. Let it be.”
Ryoka tried to obey. She really did. But the magical word was like an unsolved problem burning in her mind. Shewanted to stare at it, to figure out what it meant, and the harder she stared, the more confused her brain became.
It was like a math problem. A hard one, way harder than the AP Calculus class Ryoka had taken back in high school.
Yes—exactly like a math problem. Ryoka blinked. Suddenly, part of the symbol made sense. There were…facets to it that resembled a mathematical equation. Things to be balanced. You couldn’t take magic and use it without repercussions. Cost and exchange.
The Law of Conservation of Energy. Only energycould be destroyed with magic. Yet it was from magic that the cost was taken, and so the law remained more or less intact. But magic was not based in science. What was destroyed could be more or less than what was gained. Magic was. But it obeyed certain rules, like osmosis. It flowed. And it flowed around the world.
Ryoka put her head in her hands and tried to stop thinking, but the word was burning her from the inside out. She was on the cusp of it, and it spoke to her. Itwas a word. But was there even a name for it in her limited language?
Ceria folded her hands on her lap and smiled slightly as she watched Ryoka.
——
Pisces hissed, and his face scrunched up with concentration. He was already reddening, but neither Goblin nor Human was doing anything.
Erin focused. She really did. She tried thinking of a flame like the one Rags had conjured, but she just ended up thinking of lighters and matches. She tried muttering words.
“Expelliarmus. Alohamora. Wingardium Leviosa. Wingardium leviosa.”
“What are you muttering?”
“Nothing.”
It wasn’t working. Erin couldn’t feel anything except a mild ache in her arms from holding them up for so long. She gritted her teeth. She could do this. She closed her eyes andpushed—
A flame burst upwards and evaporated into a cloud of smoke. Erin gasped and grinned in relief and triumph—
Rags blinked at her finger and then pointed again. Pisces yelped as a flare of fire burst from her fingertip and twisted towards him. It evaporated into smoke before it reached his robes and set him off into a coughing fit. Erin blinked.
“Oh. More tribal magic?”
The [Mage] shook his head and coughed, waving away the smoke. He didn’t seem angry. Instead, he stared at Rags for a few seconds before replying very slowly.
“That was no tribal magic. That was the very beginning of the [Firefly] spell.”
“Really?”
Encouraged, Erin stretched her fingers out and tried as hard as she could to do the same thing. But Pisces wasn’t staring at her. His attention was fixed on the proud Goblin. He put one hand on his chin and started muttering to himself.
“Goblinscannot learn magic in the traditional sense. It is impossible. Surely if they had the potential it would have been discovered, analyzed in centuries hence. The potential ramifications—or is it simple freak divergence? Ancestry?”
He whirled and pointed at Rags, who leaned back.
“You. Goblin child. Was your mother non-Goblin? Or…your father?”
She shook her head.
“What would that matter?”
Erin snapped at Pisces. He jumped, and she glared at his hands. He put them back over hers and talked while he focused again.
“It would explain things. The offspring of Goblins are always Goblins regardless of the partner, male or female. But sometimes Goblins may inherit traits from their…parents. The, ah, victim might play a part in explaining unusual talents. But if this young Goblin—Rags has no immediate non-Goblin ancestors, it would mean—”
“She can be a mage. I get it.”
Erin scowled at her hands. Shewilled them to catch fire.
“Don’t stop. It’s my turn now. The test isn’t over yet, right? I can still continue?”
Pisces hesitated. Something in his face softened as he looked at Erin.
“…By all means. Keep on trying.”
She ignored the look in his eyes and the way Rags looked at him. Erin stared at her hands. She would cast magic. She could. Shewould cast magic. She would—
——
Ryoka tried not to scream as she stared at the word and the magic stared back. It was inescapable, even when she closed her eyes. The word was the beginning, and the word was magic, and magic was with her, and the magic was made into reality—
It seared Ryoka’s mind like wildfire. The knowledge burned through her assumptions and all she’d been taught all her life, breaking down walls in her head she’d never known were there. The agony of it was unbearable.
Ceria was shaking her, trying to get Ryoka to move. She was telling Ryoka thisshouldn’t be happening, trying to erase the magic word. But it was ingrained in Ryoka’s soul. It was a bit of truth, and it was something to cling to even as the rest of the world fell to pieces.
Ryoka opened her eyes. The magic surged through her, a feeling unlike any other. It wasn’t being more alive. Life was life, but magic—it was opening another door and stepping into a different world.
Suddenly, the pain was gone. Ryoka sat up and brushed Ceria’s hands off her.
“I’m okay. I am. I saw it.”
Ceria peered anxiously into Ryoka’s face. The running girl had bitten her lips so hard she’d drawn blood, but she didn’t seem to notice.
“I saw it.”
Ryoka repeated and stared at the fading shape in the air. She didn’t need to see it, though. She could remember. She wouldalways remember.
The knowledge was in her eyes, in the way Ryoka moved, in everything she was. Ceria looked at Ryoka, and whatever she saw reassured her. She smiled, relieved.
“Well? Did you see what I wrote? Can you tell me what it says?”
Ryoka took a deep breath. It had no real name. None that the English language was capable of expressing, even with a thousand words. But there was still a way to say it.
She opened her mouth.
“[Light].”
In the stillness of the early morning, light shimmered through the window. All was still, and then the light of the sun was joined by something else.
A soft light came up through Ryoka’s chest. It came down her arms and up through her palms, which began to glow. A bauble of shimmering colors drifted up from between Ryoka’s palms, hovering in front of her face as she stared.
It was the most magical thing Ryoka had ever seen. It was hers. A glowing, sharply defined orb of what she could only call light made manifest. It was brighter than a light bulb because it was pure light, and yet it was not blinding either. If she stared hard enough, she could see straight through the other side.
And it wasn’t white light either. Even as Ryoka stared at it, delicate shades of purple coalesced and then slowly transitioned into a deep blue and then brightened to green and then yellow. The light was living, and it shifted even as she held it.
It…it looked sort of like a three dimensional loading wheel on a Mac computer if Ryoka was honest. Even as she thought that, the colors changed and began to rotate in an annoyingly-familiar way.
Ceria blinked down at Ryoka’s light ball in surprise. She placed one hand on her hip and poked at the orb with the other. Her finger passed straight through the orb, making the light shimmer around her pale skin.
“I’venever seen colors like that before. They’re so…bright.”
She picked up her wand and tapped it on her palm. Instantly—far quicker than Ryoka’s own spell had taken—another shimmering orb of light rose from Ceria’s palm. But her light was different. When she held the orb next to Ryoka’s, the colors changed and deepened in ways Ryoka’s did not.
They were the same colors as the ones flashing through Ryoka’s orb of light, but somehow they were morereal. The blue that illuminated the small room wasn’t more vivid or in any way brighter, but it felt deeper, subtler, to Ryoka’s eyes. It was a more complete understanding of what ‘blue’ was, and it made her digital colors pale by comparison.
“Wow.”
As Ryoka stared, the lights in her orb began to shift, matching those of Ceria’s. She stared at the orb and then concentrated.
The ball of light shifted from white light suddenly and then shifted to a dark ultraviolet that made Ceria jump in surprise. Black light. Ryoka blinked. Suddenly, the orb was a rainbow spectrum of colors, a dancing discoball of shifting colors—
All at once, the magic ran out. The light vanished, and Ryoka sat back in her chair. She felt light-headed all of a sudden, as if the blood had suddenly rushed to her head. Weakly, she tried to sit back up, but Ceria pushed her down gently.
“Hold on, hold on, Ryoka! That was incredible! I don’t think I’ve ever seen someone do that with a basic [Light] spell before—let alone figure out how to change a spell so quickly! You just used up all the mana in your body. You’ll be tired until you recover. Here—sit there, and I’ll get you something to eat and drink. That helps.”
Ceria dashed out of the room. Ryoka stared at her hands.
She smiled.
——
The last bead of sweat dropped from Pisces’ chin. He gasped and raised his hands.
“I’m almost drained. I’m sorry. I can’t keep going.”
Erin still stared at her fingertips. If she could justforce something to happen. It would only take a second, she knew. One second of realization and she’d be able to figure it out again. She tried and tried but—
Pisces raised the glass of water Rags brought him and tossed it down, heedless of hygiene. He hesitated and then gently patted Erin on the shoulder.
“There’s no more magic left in the air. It’s all dissipated, Erin.”
“Oh.”
Erin stared at her hands. They were still the same hands, but they were somehow smaller, less important. They were good hands, callused from working but unscarred. But they were just hands. Normal.
Pisces cleared his throat. He avoided Erin’s gaze.
“I’m, ah, sorry, Miss Solstice.”
“No, it’s okay. I knew magic wasn’t for everyone. And Rags could do it, right?”
Erin smiled at Rags. The Goblin looked up. Somehow, she had found the time to grab some sausage and cheese from Erin’s kitchen. She guiltily hid both behind her back.
“Eat up. I bet you’re hungry. And you—”
Pisces blinked, but Erin was already out of her seat. She bustled out of the kitchen with blue juice and food in hand and spread it out before him.
“Here. Lunch and dinner’s on the house.”
“You are—most kind. Thank you.”
He began tearing into the food as if he were famished. And he probably was. Erin looked out the window and saw the sun was now beginning to set rather than rise in the sky. It had taken that long?
Pisces gulped and slurped down his food while Rags did the same. They both seemed starved—probably from the magic. Erin stared blankly at them and then sat down.
“So, what next?”
The Human stopped and eyed Erin warily. Rags kept on shoveling.
“What, ah, do you mean—”
“I mean about her. Not me.”
Erin pointed at Rags. The Goblin looked up.
“She can cast magic, right? Not just her tribal magic, but your kind of magic. She can learn. Will you teach her?”
Pisces’ face went blank. He stared at Rags.
“Me? Teach?”
“You were going to teach me a few spells, weren’t you? Well, I can’t cast magic, but Rags can. Will you teach her something?”
Pisces opened his mouth to object, closed it, chewed, and swallowed. His eyes flicked towards the Goblin, towards Erin, and up into the air as he thought rapidly.
“I’ve—well I’ve never considered having an apprentice. You do know I specialize in necromancy, don’t you? But on the other hand—I am quite proficient in general areas of magic. And of course anyone with a basic grasp of the fundamentals could learn. But a Goblin for a student…?”
“Tell you what. If you come in every other day and teach her for lessons, I’ll feed you for free. Deal?”
It took a few minutes of haggling, but eventually Pisces agreed. Rags had no money to pay him, but he was happy enough to accept free food. And it wasn’t as if Erin ever saw money from him anyways.
She left the inn and Pisces beginning to explain the history of magic and the fundamental theories of Magecraft to a bewildered Goblin and walked briskly down the small hill. Her destination was Liscor.
After a few minutes, Erin noticed something following her. She was walking fast enough that the skeleton had to jog to keep up. Erin stopped, and it ran up a few feet behind her and waited patiently. She scowled.
“It’s you. Go away, you.”
The still-unnamed skeleton hesitated. Then it clattered its jaw. Erin glared. She couldn’t understand it, and its understanding of her seemed to be limited.
“I’m going to visit some friends. Don’t follow me into the city. Wait around the inn while I’m gone. Do something useful. I’ll be back before nightfall.”
It hesitated.
“Go. Shoo!”
Erin pointed and then waved her hands at it as if she were chasing chickens. The skeleton reluctantly turned around and marched back towards the inn.
Erin sighed. Then she continued walking.
——
She didn’t have any particular destination in mind, she just didn’t want to be in her inn at the moment. So Erin decided to explore parts of the city she’d never been in before. That wasn’t hard. Most of the city was unexplored. She really only knew the shopping district, part of the residential area where Selys lived, and the main street up to the Adventurer’s Guild.
It was high time to explore the rest of the city. Erin decided to walk down to the Adventurer’s Guild and work her way out from there. She got about twelve steps before a furry hand yanked her out of the crowd.
“Ah, Erin Solstice. I have been waiting for you to return, yes?”
Without knowing quite what was happening, Erin felt herself being speedily towed along by a large, female Gnoll.
“You are not busy? We will have drinks in my home.”
“What? Oh, sure. I’m not busy.”
“Good! My house is only a few minutes away. Follow me.”
Krshia let go of Erin, and the Human walked rather than let herself be pulled along. She didn’t hear the quiet sigh of relief from the other Gnolls who’d been watching the gates for her arrival.
——
Krshia set a large, glistening bowl of chopped meat in front of Erin. It contrasted nicely with the cup of rootish tea in the girl’s hands.
Erin eyed the meat dish, but she’d grown used to Gnolls enough to realize she wasn’t being deliberately insulted.
With a sigh, Erin gingerly picked up a strip of meat. It looked…raw to say the least. But if Gnolls could eat it, she probably could. Krshia wouldn’t knowingly serve her poison was Erin’s feeling.
Still, all of the articles she’d ever read about E. coli and raw meat came back to Erin as she popped the bit of meat into her mouth and chewed.
“Hm? Hm~. Mm!”
It was actually quite good. Erin was surprised. She’d expected the meat to taste like bacon, but it was a fuller, richer experience. Nice and fatty without the actual fat. Immediately, she picked up another cube of meat and chewed it down. She also resolved never to ask what kind of meat it was.
“Ah, you like the scurry-food? Silkap. You can make it into cubes, or a spread, or many forms. It is quite good.”
Krshia sat with a sigh on the chair opposite Erin. It was a nice chair too, wonderfully padded if a little worn and far too big for Erin.
The apartments of a Gnoll were different from that of a Drake like Selys. Open space was clearly important in both homes—or maybe it was just the architecture, but Krshia’s home had far more rugs, padded furniture, and pillows in general. It was also in a state of slightly less-than-stellar cleaning.
Really, it wasn’t bad. But Erin had a definite sense that the standards of cleanliness differed between Drakes and Gnolls. Then again, Krshia’s actual shop was clean of any stray hair, dirt, or stains, so maybe it was just the difference between work and home.
“How are you doing, Krshia?”
Erin delicately sipped at her tea and stuffed her face. Krshia tossed down the meat in her bowl and chewed quickly.
“Mm. I am well, thank you for asking. And I am relieved to speak with you at last. Many people and many things have gotten in the way of our speaking, yes? But it is important we should speak. So I have decided.”
Erin blinked. Somehow, Krshia seemed a bit more intense than usual. She sighed. Another thing to be worried about.
“Sure. What’s up?”
Krshia blinked her great, brown eyes at Erin. She peered at the small Human and frowned.
“You seem dispirited. Is something wrong?”
“Oh, it’s nothing.”
“Mm. This is another polite Human lie, yes?”
“Yeah, but really, it’s nothing.”
Krshia stared at Erin. It was odd. She really had no whites in her eyes. It was just pupil and then brown cornea. It should have been disturbing, but Erin had grown used to it.
She sighed. Krshia waited patiently as Erin picked at another piece of meat and then put it back in her bowl.
“I found out I’m not a mage, that’s all. I can’t cast magic, and I won’t ever be able to.”
She sighed again. Krshia took a long drink of her scalding tea.
“Ah. And who is doing the telling of this?”
“Pisces.”
“Bah.”
“He wasn’t mean about it. He did a test—it looks like I’m just one of the Humans who can’t cast magic, that’s all. It’s not his fault or anything.”
Krshia shook her head. Bits of hair drifted onto her carpet.
“That is not what I meant. He tells you that you are no mage. It is not for him to decide, yes?”
Erin blinked.
“But there was a test. I can’t cast magic, Krshia.”
The female Gnoll shrugged.
“If you were born a Gnoll, this would not be an issue, yes? Human magic is different from ours. We give magic to those who are chosen. A [Shaman] for each tribe is chosen, and they wield the magic of all. We choose who can cast magic, not a single person.”
“Oh, tribal magic. Yeah, Pisces told me about it. But I wasn’t born a Gnoll.”
Krshia raised one eyebrow.
“Yes, and so you are told you can never become a mage because one tells you so. It is regrettable, yes?”
Erin didn’t have anything to say to that. She stared down into her tea.
Krshia clicked her tongue.
“Enough sadness. This is not why I have called you here. Leave magic for [Mages], Erin. It is not as important as they think. People are important. The tribe is important—if you had one. Without it? I see your friends, like Selys, and even your strange guests like the Antinium and…Goblins as being your tribe. Friendships and ties are important.”
She reached out and tapped Erin gently on the chest. It was still a heavy tap, but it made Erin feel better.
“Okay, sure. What did you want to talk to me about so much, Krshia?”
The Gnoll paused and seemed to choose her words.
“I have been thinking much since I watched you play your game of chess. Against the Antinium named Pawn. Many things you said I heard and wondered at.”
Erin looked blank.
“Like what? You mean the chess? Don’t worry, no one gets that.”
For a second, she could have sworn Krshia was eying her to see if Erin was laughing. But then the Gnoll briskly shook her head again.
“No. It is what you said. You come from another world. I heard you speak of it and wondered at the miracle.”
Erin’s face was completely blank. Then her eyes widened.
“I said that?”
Krshia nodded gravely. Her eyes were fixated on Erin’s face.
The Human didn’t seem to know how to react. A brief moment of chagrin was replaced by some head scratching. After a few seconds, Erin looked up and shrugged.
“Oh, um, yeah. I’m from another world. Sorry I didn’t tell you earlier.”
Krshia stared. Possibly it was the blasé way Erin said it, without regard to the way it made the Gnoll’s heart skip and jump. Oblivious, Erin continued.
“I come from a place called Michigan. It’s pretty nice there. Lots of big lakes, wonderful weather—except when it snows or rains really hard, of course. I lived in a nice house, with my folks—”
She paused. For a second, Erin stared down into her cup and then continued as if nothing had happened.
“Um, one day, I found myself here. I just turned a corner and blam.”
“Blam?”
“I found myself staring at this big lizard. With wings. A Dragon.”
“ADragon?”
“Yeah. It breathed fire at me, and I ran. Then there were some Goblins…and then I found the inn. After that, it was all survival until I met Klbkch and Relc and then—you know the rest.”
Again, there was something off-putting about the way Erin said everything so easily. Krshia had to shake her head several times and take a few more gulps of tea to steady her nerves.
“You survived much.”
“I guess.”
Erin shrugged. It didn’t feel like a lot. It felt like a lifetime, actually, but through it all, she’d just kept moving, kept trying to survive. And really, what had she done? Repaired a few doors, swept some dust out, leveled up as an [Innkeeper] a bit…and gotten a friend killed.
Not much at all.
“I ask this in confidence. I promise by my tribe and by the open sky and earth that I would never betray your trust or secrets given. But I must ask, and my kin must know. This land you come from—it is not like this one, yes?”
Erin paused and blinked at Krshia. It sounded like a serious oath, but what did Krshia say about her kin?
“You mean you’re going to tell…other Gnolls?”
Krshia hesitated and then placed her tea cup down as she nodded.
“Mm. Yes. If I must, I think it is better to share a secret that is important. And these Gnolls shall tell others if need be. But they shall keep it a secret within our tribe, our people. Your secret shall not be spoken to any not of Gnollkind. That is what I meant. I swear upon Silverfang and the upcoming Meeting of Tribes—we shall not betray your trust. And it will be all Gnolls, all the Gnolls of the Great Plains who hold that secret and support you, if need be.”
A promise by an entire species to keep silent. Erin would have laughed, but she felt that might actually result in violence. Krshia looked serious, and Erin thought the Gnoll was serious.
And—what did Erin have to lose? Besides her life? So she shrugged.
“My world? It’s not like this one. Not at all. It’s so different I can’t even explain how strange it is to be here.”
“Mm. How so? Eat, drink. But tell me. I am very curious.”
How did you describe a world without magic and levels to someone who didn’t even exist in your world? For that matter, how would you describe a world a thousand years more advanced? Erin scratched at her head and did her best.
“Well—we’ve got a lot more technology. And less magic. No magic, actually. And we don’t have Levels or Classes or Skills, but we do have a lot more Humans. Actually, we have only Humans. There aren’t any Gnolls or Drakes or any monsters where I come from. And—are you okay, Krshia?”
The Gnoll’s eyes were bugging out in her head. It was such an alarming change from the Gnoll’s usually half-lidded stare that Erin was worried.
“Take no mind of me. G-go on.”
Krshia drained her cup and dragged over a large and dented tea pot. She refilled her cup with furry hands that shook and offered Erin a refill. The Human politely waved the tea away.
“You say this is a world full of Humans? That is strange, yes? Are there no other creatures?”
Erin nodded and hastily amended her sentence.
“Oh tons of creatures. Lots of animals. Dogs, cats, penguins, cows…but just no people like—like you. People who think and speak is what I mean.”
“I…see…”
Krshia’s head was throbbing. The Gnoll would have loved nothing better than to sit in a corner and bang her head against a wall just imagining what Erin was saying. Better yet, she would have loved to overturn the table and call Erin a tail-biting liar. But [Spot Deception] was a [Merchant] and a [Shopkeeper]’s skill, and if it wasn’t as good as [Detect Guilt] or [Sense Intentions], it was still more than a match for a large falsehood. What Erin was saying was true.
“These Humans. You Humans.”
Krshia stumbled over her tongue and tried to speak casually.
“How many of them are there? How many nations? Is it a small world?”
“Sorta? It feels small sometimes. I know overpopulation is an issue.”
Erin rolled her eyes upwards as she thought.
“Um, is it six or seven? Seven? I think we’re supposed to have eight sometime soon.”
“Eight what? Eight countries?”
“No, eight billion Humans.”
Krshia looked blank.
“I do not know this word. Erin, what is a ‘billion’? It is a counting number, yes?”
“Yeah. Do you know, um, million?”
The Gnoll’s brows scrunched together.
“It is a word I heard with Goblins. A million is a large number. Larger than mountains. A thousand thousands, yes?”
“…Yes? I think so. Wait…let me do the math.”
Erin tried to imagine how many zeros were in a million.
“Yeah. That’s about right.”
“Mm. Then is a billion two millions?”
“Oh, no.”
Erin laughed at Krshia’s confusion. She didn’t notice the Gnoll’s hand trembling on her cup.
“A billion is a thousand millions. So that’d be a thousand thousand thousands. What a tongue twister. It’d be…a hundred thousand ten thousand times. Does that make sense?”
Erin looked at Krshia. The Gnoll was sitting very still in her chair.
“Krshia?”
Gnolls didn’t have any visible skin, just fur. But her ears were standing straight up on her head. Between the slats in her chair, Erin could see the Gnoll’s tail was fully erect as well.
Without a word, and without a single hint of warning, the Gnoll suddenly tipped forwards in her chair in a dead faint. Erin yelped and dove just in time as Krshia crashed into her table, shattering porcelain and upending the kettle of tea.
“Krshia, what’s wrong?”
Erin bent over the unconscious Gnoll and, with great effort, tilted her upright. The shards of broken pottery hadn’t even cut the Gnoll through her fur, but Krshia was still unconscious. Only the—well, the blacks of Krshia’s eyes were showing.
“Are you okay? What happened? Speak to me, Krshia.”
But no matter how hard Erin shook the Gnoll, she didn’t come round. Desperately, Erin propped Krshia up against her chair and wavered between going for help and waiting for Krshia to wake up. It didn’t seem like she’d been hurt.
Erin sat among the spilled meat and cooling tea. Her heart still hurt, but mercifully, she had something to panic about. She put her head in her hands.
“Why does this keep happening to me?”
Why had Krshia wanted to talk to her, anyways? It probably wasn’t best to tell her about her world—at least the parts about hyenas being hunted—or all the other bad parts, really. She’d been so interested. And Erin had remembered—
She cut her brain off as it thought of home. No. Focus. Krshia was important. If she didn’t wake up in ten minutes, Erin would go get someone. Another Gnoll, probably. She’d been seeing more of them around than normal.
But why had Krshia fainted? If that was what had happened.
“Why?”
Erin shook her head. She had no idea. But—
“Was it something I said?”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T06:32:53)
Trade offer:
I receive typos.
You receive nothing.
juppie (2023-03-16T19:33:51)
Minotaurs can be [Mages]. Anyone can be a [Mage]. But Gnolls. Even Goblins.
…
“Uh—how about Goblins?”
Pisces sniffed.
“I have never heard of any Goblin whose abilities matched that of a proper mage.
maybe leave out the first mention of goblins being able to be mages? that way Erin’s question makes more sense, as does Pisces reaction.
(so:
Minotaurs can be [Mages]. Anyone can be a [Mage]. But Gnolls. Even Goblins.–>
Minotaurs can be [Mages]. Anyone can be a [Mage]. But Gnolls.)
Ryuuku (2023-03-24T07:39:22)
Hmmm. I’d deep knowledge of Earth infohazardous? But that King from before didn’t faint, although it did have an effect on him… a mundane one, perhaps. Interesting chapter!
iraklo (2023-03-28T11:51:27)
So erin can’t cast magic?
Hmmm, rags’ first fire spell was kind of teasing.
Hmmm, wait if she doesn’t have magic, how does class and skills work?
Darkgills (2023-04-23T08:32:21)
It makes me unjustifiably mad that Erin can’t do magic lol, I mean I know realistically, we can’t have all the main characters be mages, but still!
greycat (2023-07-23T14:52:53)
Or change “Even Goblins” ro “Or Goblins”.
greycat (2023-07-23T15:01:53)
She can’t use the type of magic that [Mages] use, but we know there are other types of magic.
Salamander (2023-08-12T12:28:41)
Yeah. Ryoka has the fastest legs in the west, her muay thai and parkour skills and now magic too! And that’s all without any skills levels or classes.  Erin’s got bar fighting, lesser strength and some friends. On second thought, she gets the power of friendship, so she’ll be fine.
Scrifty (2023-11-08T17:36:49)
It’s learning that there’s a place that’s so far above you in technology and population.
Broock (2023-11-19T21:15:39)
Erin n’est peut-être pas capable de magie, mais un bon gros genkidama avec le pouvoir de l’amitié reste envisageable non?
La détresse de Krisha est compréhensible ; plus de 7 milliards d’êtres humains est une calamité sans nom.
Toni (2023-11-30T16:40:55)
Same, sort of. But then, that dragon fella who gave Ruoka her quest to find Az’Kerash seemed to indicate that it’s possible to condition your body for magic, so I’m still holding out hope
yagoldt (2024-01-12T21:50:08)
Thankfully. Imagine what a waste it would be for Erin to do magic. It’s better for the GOAT Ryoka to have that power.
Congra (2024-03-22T02:55:46)
“Those spices you carried here. All the way from Wales. They were heavy. I saw the size of your pack. Must have been sixty, eight pounds of weight. And you jogged the entire way here?”
Should be: sixty, eighty* pounds of weight
Just missing a “y”
Mr anderson (2024-09-05T04:17:52)
People In this world are counted by the thousands, people in our world are counted by the millions, it’s just a scale difference one couldn’t imagine
AbraCadaver (2024-10-10T13:52:13)
Noooo why is Ryoka so spoiled by the narrative!? I wanted Erin to be magic!! There’s a hole in her life and her goals that magic could help fill, I was so sure she was about to multiclass :(
Krshia raised one eyebrow.
“Yes, and so you are told you can never become a mage because one tells you so. It is regrettable, yes?”
Sounds like I can hold out hope for her to find another way… I guess something similar to tribal magic could suit an inkeep, especially once she starts renting rooms, and the way Pisces was dismissing it does kinda seem to imply he’s about to get proven wrong… but I want Erin to have more talents of her own! Chess is cool, but she hasn’t even figured out whether she can be passionate about inkeeping yet! And Ryoka getseverything!?
Glorp (2024-11-16T19:15:40)
Oh, I get it now. The earthers are gluing the two worlds together, like soap bubbles touching-then merging.
Erin and Ryoka’s Earth is going to spackle the large hole from the god wars- bye bye Last Tide?
Soutkyann (2025-01-16T02:10:04)
Those are passive I guess.. You don’t have to turn it on or use it

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.46
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-46/

When Krshia came round, she did so dramatically. Erin had fussed over her for a few minutes before realizing there was no way she was going to be able to pick the Gnoll woman up. She was twice Erin’s weight, and her fur made her look even bigger. So Erin just sat and scrutinized her.
She really was sort of a woman of the tribes, right? For all she was a [Shopkeeper], Krshia apparently knew how to shoot a bow, and she had lived most her life outside the walls of a city. Gnolls had light, sparse clothing mostly, and they seemed to like hunting and such.
Perhaps Gnolls weren’t as—as civilized as other races. But of course that was the wrong thing for Erin to think. It was more that Gnolls still lived in close proximity to monsters, even more so than Drakes did. They had to be ready to defend themselves in case one attacked their villages. That was probably why when Krshia sat up gasping, her claws popped out of her paws and she nearly took Erin’s head off.
It was an accident. Erin was nearly 100% sure of that. And Krshiahad apologized several times.
After they’d patched up Erin’s cheek and poured a tiny bit of healing potion on the cut to make it heal faster, the Gnoll and Human cleaned up the broken table and spilled tea. Then they began the tea party again, only with less party and very cold tea.
Krshia had some lovely cheese that Erin didn’t mind snacking on. It was wonderfully sharp, and the tea wasn’t half bad, even after it had cooled.
“Apologies again, Erin.”
The large Gnoll sighed as she lowered herself back into her chair and kicked the remnants of her coffee table aside. The replacement she’d brought was a footstool, which she balanced the platter of cheese on.
“It was nothing. Really. But why did you faint?”
“Mm. I was merely surprised. Forgive me.”
Krshia took a drink from her tea and shuddered for a second.
“The Humans on your planet—I was not prepared for such a number.”
“What? Oh, you mean eight billion? I guess that’s a lot.”
“It is.”
“Ah. Um. Was itthat surprising?”
Erin’s complete incomprehension gave Krshia a gentle urge to smack her. But Humans were fragile, so though her paw twitched, she kept her voice pleasant.
“It may have been shock or perhaps it was something I ate, yes?”
The young woman glanced at the bowl of meats she still hadn’t finished.
“I sure hope not.”
“That was a joke.”
Krshia shook her head. Humans really had no sense of humor. They could never tell when she was being ironic, sardonic, sarcastic, or just teasing them. Their faces were easy to read on, the other paw.
“Let us put the interruption behind us. You were telling me about your world. It has many people—this I now realize. But what else is different?”
Erin frowned, scratched at her ear with one finger, and shrugged helplessly.
“Uh, everything? I mean, most things. We’ve got mountains and water and stuff like you guys, but in terms of technology or buildings or…everything’s different.”
Krshia leaned forwards.
“I would like to know details of these differences. Can you give me a few important changes between our worlds? Besides the lack of Levels and Classes.”
“Well—there’s a lot to say. I mean, we’ve got such different cultures. Ours is more adv—moredifferent in many ways. Like—we have weapons and you have weapons, but ours are more shooty.”
“Shooty?”
“Yeah. Like ‘blam’.”
Erin made a gun with her fingers and pointed while making the sound. Krshia blinked at her, uncomprehending.
“What I mean is, we don’t use swords. Or axes. We have guns. They’re, uh, sort of like crossbows but better? Do you know what crossbows are?”
“I…see. Yes, I have heard of crossbows. I know them decently well, though bows—I am familiar with in their many forms. Crossbows. Hrr. And you have many of these weapons? They are powerful, yes?”
“Yeah. But we don’t use them on monsters. We just kill each other with them. And we don’t use horses—well wedo use horses, but we also have other ways to travel. Like cars.”
In some ways, fainting had been more relaxing for Krshia than talking to Erin. Her head was beginning to hurt.
“Cars? What are these creatures?”
“They’re not animals. They’re, uh, moving, metal boxes. On wheels.”
“You—push them around, yes?”
“No…it’s more like they move because we burn stuff inside them. Combustion. They drive themselves. Well I mean, they don’tdrive themselves. You need a Human in one to drive it. But some of the newer cars can drive themselves. But most can’t. And they need fuel. Gasoline. That’s a type of oil, I think.”
Erin looked helplessly at Krshia. The Gnoll was massaging her temples.
“Um. Did any of that make sense?”
——
They tried for another half hour before they gave up. Erin did her best, but she really didn’t know how half of the things in her world worked. Her best explanation of cars was that they had some kind of engine-creature in its stomach that ate oil and made the car move faster than a horse. And she had no idea how planes actually flew, especially when Krshia kept asking her how something that was made of metal could ever fly without magic.
It wasn’t as if Erin hadfailed science class or didn’t know how things worked. But she hadn’t exactly taken Engineering 101 either. In fact, she hadn’t gone into college, preferring to work as a chess tutor and tournament contender to save up money before she enrolled.
All of that meant—well, it just meant that while Erin could tell Krshia a lot of fantastical things, it sounded like she was making everything up. And Krshia was clearly distracted. She kept rubbing at her head for one thing. Erin guessed she’d hit it pretty hard when she fell over.
“Enough, enough. I am weary, and you are thirsty. Drink, and let us talk of other things for the moment.”
Erin nodded and accepted a refill of the new batch of tea Krshia had brewed while they spoke. She eyed the Gnoll.
“Well, I guess I can’t really explain my world that well. But your world is equally strange to me. Stuff like magic—that’s just fairy tales in my world.”
“Ah, you have…Winter Sprites? I have heard a few call them ‘faeries’.”
“No, I…you know what? Forget it. I’m just saying we don’t have magic. So when I came here, I had no idea how anything worked.”
“Hmm. I remember. You were lost and very afraid, then. But you have done well since, yes?”
“I guess.”
“There is no guessing. I have seen how you have improved and made this land your home. We have witnessed your triumphs. We have seen your victories. They are to be proud of, Erin Solstice.”
Erin sighed and shook her head in denial. Then, suddenly, she looked up at Krshia. A flicker of suspicion crossed her face.
“Krshia? Whydid you want to talk with me about my world?”
Krshia thought fast while keeping her face straight. She answered carefully.
“I was simply curious. It is natural to question such statements, is it not?”
“I guess. But you just said you’d been watching me. And you said ‘we’. Is that why I keep seeing a bunch of Gnolls wherever I go?”
For a Human, Erin was surprisingly perceptive at times. Krshia cursed her slip of the tongue and kept a straight face. But Erin had played too many games of chess. She could see when someone had on a poker face. Her eyes narrowed.
“Right. I guess it’s time for my questions. Krshia, what do the Gnolls want with me?”
Krshia tapped her claw against her teacup. Again, she chose her next sentence with extreme care, as if she were negotiating a sale worth hundreds of gold pieces.
“The Gnolls who live in Liscor have many desires. We hoped—that there might be some things that one such as you could help us with. But that is only part of the reason I asked you here. The other part was to ask a question. What does Erin Solstice want?”
Erin blinked as the question came straight back at her.
“What do I want?”
“Everything is give and take, yes? We would give much for knowledge. Items of worth. Things that could help our people. But all things have a price. We would help you grant your desires if you had something to offer in exchange.”
“I don’t have anything to give you. Besides food. But I buy that from you.”
“It may be you do not realize your own worth. A stranger from a far-off land has many secrets, many skills of worth she does not know she possesses, yes?”
“Maybe. I doubt it, though.”
“Regardless. I asked you a question. What is it you wish? If possible, we would help you. Or if my tribe disagrees, I would help you not as one seeking a bargain but as a friend.”
Erin smiled at Krshia.
“Well, when you put it like that—I still don’t know.”
Krshia frowned.
“There are many things Humans want. Surely you have the same wishes, yes? Do you want money?”
“What would I use it on? Repairing the inn? I guess money’d be nice, but I’m okay.”
“Hrm. Then do you wish for more levels? Better weapons? These things many Humans desire. Or—an attractive mate? A fertile one?”
“No, no, no, and definitelyno. I’m not interested in any of that. Really. I already have a lot of those adventurers chatting me up in the street.”
“Hrrm.”
This was tricky. Krshia had already run through all the things she would have wanted. Erin didn’t exactly seem like she was too interested in mating at the moment, and she was no warrior—at least, she didn’tlike fighting. But neither was she happy.
“Then what is it you wish?”
Erin shrugged. She stared at her half-empty tea cup, at the ceiling, around Krshia’s room—and then she seemed to realize what she was missing. She looked at Krshia.
“I want to go home.”
It was a simple sentence, delivered casually. But the wave of emotion Krshia smelled coming off of Erin told an entirely different story. The Gnoll shopkeeper had a strong desire to wrinkle her nose or rub at it, but that would have given her away.
“I see. But if you have not returned already, you do not know the way back, yes?”
“Yes—I mean, no. I don’t.”
Erin shook her head, distracted. Now that she’d said what was in her heart, her entire demeanor had changed. Her body language was shifting, and the turmoil of emotions within her was making Krshia’s nosetwitch.
“This desire of yours. You wish for it strongly, yes?”
“No.”
Erin lied and then corrected her lie as Krshia raised one eyebrow.
“Maybe.Yes. I don’t want to insult this place. It’s a beautiful world you have here, Krshia. It really is more amazing than anything from my world. And I’ve made friends. Selys, Pawn, you…even Pisces. All that’s good, but—”
She paused and then looked down into her cup. Erin’s voice was quiet.
“I have family back home. My mom and my dad. I can’t believe I don’t think of them more often, but I guess I’m just trying to stay sane here. And I had friends. It’s not like I miss them most of the time—I try not to think about it. But…I didn’t even get to say goodbye, y’know?”
For two seconds, it looked as if she would break. Erin blinked rapidly and brushed at her eyes. But the tears never fell. She sighed, and the moment was past.
“Sorry. It’s just—I’d really like to go home. If I could. I know it might be impossible. I don’t even know if it was some kind of spell or a…a cosmic accident that brought me here. But if I could, I want to go home.”
Krshia stared at Erin, her dark eyes unblinking. She said nothing out loud, but she was thinking. For a second, the bright, cheerful nature of Erin had broken. It was a mask, a layer of protection around her heart. She was strong, but fragile, like the Antinium were underneath their shells. Her hide was tough. But it would all break down if Krshiapushed just a tiny bit—
The Gnoll pretended nothing had happened and went on talking until Erin’s emotions were fully back under her control. Now was not the time for such things.
“It may have been magic. Perhaps. I do not know such things. I am merely a [Shopkeeper]. But I have never heard of one crossing from other worlds through a spell. That is the stuff of legends, creating magical dimensions and crossing betwixt them. But there are many magics that teleport. Perhaps a truly great [Mage] may have used such a spell by accident or mistake.”
Erin frowned speculatively.
“Maybe. It didn’tfeel like magic back then. But I’ve never been teleported, so maybe it was magic and I just didn’t notice. It really felt like an accident.”
“Accident or not, you are here. And perhaps the cause is irrelevant, yes? You are here. The question is not what brought you here, but how you may return.”
“And is magic the answer?”
“Most likely. I would not know of any other way. But as I have said, it would take a [Mage], no—an [Archmage] to cast such a spell, if it can be done.”
“Right. You wouldn’t happen to have one of those lying around, would you?”
Krshia shook her head.
“They are the rarest of spellcasters. I know of only a few, and none live on this continent. Nor are they [Archmages] proper…but they are the best you could ask for, for magical help.”
“Great.”
Erin shook her head. Krshia smiled.
“Do not despair before even hearing of them, yes? Listen. There are several archmages. One on the Human continent to the north. Two more on other continents. But at least three have homes in Wistram, the Isle of Mages.”
Erin perked up at that.
“Really? Three?”
“They come and go. But Wistram is their home. If you waited there for a month, you would surely see at least one, yes? And perhaps it is not an Archmage you need but the right spell.”
“So what you’re saying is that Wistram is the place I would want to go if I wanted to find out about getting home, right?”
“Mm. Perhaps.”
Erin frowned because Krshia was frowning.
“What’s wrong?”
“It is nothing. I am sure if you travelled to Wistram they would allow you entry. But it is not such a good place that I would tell you to travel alone, yes?”
“Really? But I thought it was like Hogw—a, uh, school for mages. Wouldn’t it be safe and full of cool spells and stuff?”
Krshia flicked her fingers dismissively.
“Perhaps some may call it so. But your Pisces, he graduated from Wistram did he not? And he is a [Necromancer] and a thief and gravedigger.”
“Well, when you put it that way…”
“And Wistram is made up of many Humans, yes? They are petty and squabble as many of your kind do. Non-humans live among them, of course, but it is no haven. Wistram is no friend to the magicless.”
A dark frown crossed Krshia’s face. Erin sat still, remembering to breathe. She’d forgotten how scary Gnolls could be. On one hand, they were like giant teddy bears, but on the other hand, they greatly resembled giant teddy bears, complete with razor-sharp claws.
“Did something happen to you, Krshia? Did you—did you ever go to Wistram?”
“I?”
Krshia sniffed dismissively and shook her head.
“I would not visit such a place. Nor would any of my kind, even to trade and earn money. We do not deal with those fools.”
“Fools?”
Krshia shook her head.
“It is an old story. I would not trouble you with it, Erin.”
“No, tell me. Please. I’m interested.”
The Gnoll hesitated, but Erin was openly earnest. And because it was clearly upsetting her, Krshia told the story.
“Wistram is a place of magic. It is the place for mages to go and learn, yes? Other cities have their own guilds and even schools, and some nations pay for mages to learn and serve. But Wistram is nationless and a nation unto itself. They have never bowed to any ruler and never shall. So they are thought of well by all who practice magic. But they are fools.”
Her fingers clenched on her tea cup and relaxed before they could shatter the delicate porcelain.
“Nearly forty years ago, the Gnoll tribes gathered to talk and forge alliances and plans for the future. It is done every twenty years, and it is an important time. At that time, we had heard much of Wistram, and many among us wished for Gnolls to learn such secrets as the Academy teaches. It is said that Gnolls cannot be [Mages]—well, why not test that theory? No Gnoll had ever taught themselves magic, but tribe Weatherfur suggested we ask the greatest teachers in the world if there is even a chance it could be done. Sensible, yes?”
Erin sat in her chair, listening to Krshia’s rumbling voice and thinking. She already thought she knew how the story ended, but she wondered other things. Had Krshia been there? How old was she? And—what did the Gnolls want? But Krshia went on, and Erin was sucked into her story.
“It was decided that the tribes would send one of our finest young [Shamans] to Wistram to ask admission. We chose one who was young but was talented beyond his years and gave him magical artifacts from each tribe and much coin to make the journey. Our warriors took him to a port city, and he took a ship to Wistram, braving storms and pirates on his long journey.”
If it was possible, Krshia’s expression turned even angrier. Her hackles raised. Erin watched as the hair on the back of Krshia’s neck stood upright, fascinated.
“The mages at Wistram gave the Gnoll a test when he asked to be entered into the Academy. They did not believe him when he claimed to be a spellcaster as they were. They asked him to cast spells, but he was alone, yes? Alone, and without any to draw on. Without any others, there is no magic to cast for [Shamans]. That is why he asked to be taught as a normal student. But the mages, they did not listen. They cast him out and declared all Gnolls to be magic-deficient. Talentless.”
Krshia growled and spat. Erin stared at the glob of spit dripping from one of the Gnoll’s dressers and wondered if she were going to clean that up later.
“That is why to this day [Mages] from Wistram are not welcome among the tribes and why we do not trade with their island. And that is why even if you go, you must not trust them, Erin Solstice. The mages of Wistram do not trust any who do not have magic they recognize.”
Erin nodded. Krshia’s story sounded like a case of good old-fashioned racism or maybe just ignorance. Either way, she understood the Gnoll’s ire. But it didn’t change things.
“I’d still like to talk to a mage. Or—a mage besides Pisces, at least.”
Krshia shrugged, tired from telling her story.
“There are several in the city. But Drake mages, the strong ones, fight with their army, yes? And magic is not as widely practiced in these lands. Perhaps you would find one wise enough to help you, but you would search long.”
“So Wistram’s my only option? I mean, I’m not saying I’d just get up and head over there but—”
“If you wish to return home, that may be your best choice.”
Erin sat still for a while, staring into her tea cup. She raised it to her lips and took a long drink of the bitter and now cold tea.
“Okay. Okay. That’s—that’s something to aim for, at least.”
“It is good to have a goal. And perhaps that is something we may assist you with.”
“Really? I mean, why? And how? Is it that hard to get to Wistram?”
Krshia shrugged.
“Perhaps not hard for one with much coin, but it is a long ways away and dangerous for a lone Human female who is not a warrior, and even one who is, yes? Anyone may attempt the journey to Wistram, but it is another thing to make the journey and survive.”
That didn’t sound good. At all. Erin frowned.
“What’s so hard about it? You hire a carriage, get to a port city, jump on a boat, and you’re nearly there, right?”
Krshia laughed quietly and tapped Erin on the shoulder. Again, Gnolls had aheavy tap that was more like a shove.
“It is good to be young and eager. But it is not good to stop thinking, yes? Wistram is protected by more than mages. The seas around the college are calm at times, but at other times, they devour ships and sink fleets. Especially in the winter.”
She shook her head at Erin.
“Even if you left now, winter would freeze you at sea as you travelled west, and the storms would crack the hull of any ship foolish enough to brave the oceans. And there is the cost to consider as well.”
“Oh, right. Hiring a ship would be really expensive, right?”
“You would seek passage on a ship to Wistram. That would not be as expensive, but I talk of the cost of the journey. To travel north to the port cities safely would require joining a caravan that hires adventurers. That costs coin. A good place on a good ship with an able captain requires coin. A bodyguard or one who would protect you costs coin. And seeking lodging in Wistram—”
“I get it. It costs a lot of coin, right?”
Krshia sniffed at Erin and flicked her forehead lightly like one would a child. Only in this case it reallyhurt.
“Ow! Stop that! Your claws are sharp!”
“Apologies. But you are still not thinking. Say you reach Wistram after travelling so far. Tell me, Erin Solstice, how do you plan on finding a mage to bring you home?”
“Well…”
Erin paused and blinked.
“I, uh, hadn’t thought of that. I guess I’d just go to their headmaster and ask for help?”
Krshia laughed hard and long.
“That would be a sight to see. Yes, and talking to such a leader among mages would be an achievement in itself if he even existed! Wistram has a Council and its Archmages. You might find many influential persons, but why would they listen? You are just a child speaking of other worlds. Even if you could prove your truth, which is simple enough, how would you convince them to help you?”
“Well—I’m from another world. Isn’t that enough?”
“Perhaps to some. But while I believe you—how would you prove it to them? And even assuming they wished to help—do you think Wistram does anything for free?”
Erin’s heart sank.
“So you’re saying I’d need to pay a mage to help me?”
Krshia nodded. Well, she nodded, shrugged, and seemed unclear.
“I am not one to make idle promises, Erin Solstice. Manymight help you for free, but you would not like me if you had gone to Wistram only to find no one willing to hear you unless you had gold to pay them, eh? To be certain, either have the funds to buy a mage to assist you or to find a mage worthy and willing to help you. That is the real cost I speak of.”
Things were never so simple as they were in books. It was Erin’s turn to rub at her head with her hands. If this were Harry Potter, she’d be able to walk up to Diagon Alley and—well, she was a muggle and she’d forgotten the password, so they wouldn’t let her in, and even if she did walk around asking people if they were wizards—
“This sucks. You’re telling me I have topay to go home?”
“Is it not always so?”
Erin scowled at Krshia, but the Gnoll just smiled back. Erin reluctantly began to think, counting off on her fingers.
“Okay. Say that is my goal. How much money would I need, do you think? A hundred gold pieces for the journey? And then maybe another hundred pieces to find a place to stay? And—um, let’s call it six hundred for finding a mage willing to help me? That’s…a lot.”
“Too much, I think.”
Krshia shook her head at Erin.
“You have no idea of pricing, yes? For sixty pieces perhaps I could bring you to Wistram. It would be a longer journey, and you would need to find one to guard you. But it could be done. And a hundred gold pieces would last you several years even in Wistram. But the real price is in the mage.”
Erin’s heart sunk even lower.
“Six hundred gold pieces not enough?”
“It is not about money. Mages have much money, and offering to pay them may work or it may not. Your money would be of little interest to all but the lowest-level ones. They are not what you want, I am thinking.”
“No, definitely not.”
“We spoke of archmages, yes? They are the ones you seek. Finding an audience with them through wit or bribery—that is your challenge. For that, I would take as much money as I could bring and something to attract their attention.”
Erin sat back in her chair, overwhelmed at the idea—not to mention the cost. Krshia laughed again.
“Do not despair. These things seem large, but they are not overwhelming, yes? Sit. Drink. And let me talk to you of what the Gnolls might do. And what you may do for us.”
Erin sat back in her chair as Krshia stood up. She let the Gnoll bustle around her home, refilling Erin’s cup with more tea, offering her more food and thought. She thought about the journey, what Krshia was proposing, and the danger and difficulty involved at every step. But she also thought of something else.
She remembered a quiet home, two people she knew she could go to with every worry. She thought of her bed, her friends. She thought of home and realized that was where she really wanted to go.
——
When Erin walked out of Krshia’s home, it was nearly nightfall. The Gnoll insisted she walk Erin back to the gates, and it was only with some convincing that Erin told her she’d be fine on the way back. She’d spotted a shiny, bald…head with no hair or even skin attached hiding on a nearby hillside, and she didn’t want the Gnoll to freak out.
It would have taken a lot for Krshia to freak out at this stage anyways, even if she’d known how to freak out properly. It had been a long conversation Erin and Krshia had had, ranging from the logistics of how one might travel from Liscor all the way to Wistram Academy, hundreds—perhaps thousands of miles away. Erin had forgotten to ask the exact distances, probably because she was too afraid to.
But between talk of money and the journey, Krshia had talked with Erin about her world and extracted a promise for the Human girl to tell her more at another time. That had been what had set the Gnoll’s stomach jumping and was the main reason she didn’t pick up on the dead smell of bones, magic, and marrow blowing her way.
She watched Erin disappear into the night, ignoring the gate guard until the Human had crested a hill. She could hear Erin shouting something, but she was too far away at that point even for the Gnoll’s ears to pick up what she was saying.
Only then did Krshia turn to the guard at the gates who was deliberately ignoring her and nudge him.
“There is no one watching. You can drop the act, Tkrn. You are a terrible pretender of things in any case.”
Tkrn, the Gnoll guardsman who had been assigned to the gates for the last few days in a row, grinned toothily at Krshia.
“Aunt,finally! I was wondering if you were going to stab Erin or call for help. If she really was a [Spy] from Terandria or something.”
Krshia scowled at the other Gnoll and jabbed him in the ribs. Hard. Even though the other Gnoll was wearing chainmail, he still winced.
“I told you it would not come to that. And you and the others are fools for suggesting it and dreaming her disappearance would not be noticed. Kill a lost child?”
Tkrn scowled and rubbed at his side sulkily. But he didn’t dare talk back. Instead, he cast his eyes to where Erin had disappeared.
“I just—it was a joke! Anyways, she’s really what she seems to be?”
Krshia snorted.
“As I have said, so it is. She is no threat; merely a lost one seeking to return home.”
Tkrn shook his head.
“So it is true? She is from another world?”
“I sense the truth of it. Yes, she is one who came here by mistake.”
Again, the other Gnoll shook his head in disbelief.
“When I first smelled her, she stank of a place full of oil and metal and burning. Is her world like that?”
Krshia paused, thinking.
“From what she said—and did not say—it is a world of Humans. They alone live in it. Whether that is a better one than this I do not know.”
“But it is different.”
“Yes. Very. In ways that are disturbing and grand. But she did not speak much of these differences, and I understood less. But she is—useful. She is important.”
“But she wants to go home, too. So we’re the only ones who can help her. Which means we get to ask favors of her, right? Maybe even present her to the Meeting of Tribes for Silverfang’s honor?”
Krshia gave Tkrn a baleful look, and he wilted.
“You were supposed to be looking out for other listeners, not eavesdropping, fool. What point is there hearing what I will tell the others anyways?”
“But it doesn’t matter, does it? No one was listening that I saw.”
Tkrn whined at Krshia, but the other Gnoll didn’t relent. She shook her head.
“We need Erin Solstice more than she needs us, yes? And we do not want her speaking with others who would know her value.”
Krshia prodded Tkrn none-too-gently in the chest.
“So be more alert! When she comes back, I wish to know. And tonight, ask one of the Runners. Lv or Tshana. They must send a message to the tribes.”
Tkrn looked up. That was serious. He listened carefully as Krshia spoke.
“They must send more of our people here. Wise ones. I ask for counsel as well, of all I have learned. I will speak with all those in the city as soon as all can be gathered and send a second Runner. But this first one must go at once.”
“Will you ask anything else of them?”
“Ask them if they have found others such as Erin. And if they have not found them, tell them to search! Tell them to look among Humans for ones who stand out and speak and act differently.”
Tkrn straightened and nodded. He had a sword at his waist and a shield buckled to one arm. But he would have been dangerous without either weapon. Well. Moderately dangerous. His eyes glinted in the moonlight.
“Do you want me to gather some others to watch over her inn? We could set up camp a few miles away in secret. Watch Captain Zevara will notice if I’m off-duty, but the others could work in shifts.”
Again, for his trouble, Tkrn earned another elbow that made him wince. Krshia flattened her ears and glared at him.
“You are foolish, Tkrn. Just like a cub on his first hunt. If we place others around her inn, she will notice, yes? But before she does, others will notice and ask questions. And we have few warriors in the city as it is.”
Tkrn whined. He didn’t like speaking to Krshia, especially because the punishment for making mistakes was so painful.
“How can we protect her if we cannot be seen near her?”
Krshia didn’t turn as she strode away. She spoke briskly over her shoulder as she went to talk with other Gnolls.
“How else? We give her the means to protect herself.”
——
Toren was being chastised. Or rather, Toren was being yelled at. It was pretty much the same thing, but volume was the key difference here.
Erin walked through the grass back towards her inn, snapping at the skeleton as it meekly followed her, fish in hand.
“Why did you come all the way out here? Do you know what would have happened if the guard had seen you? He would have smashed you to bits, and I would have probably gotten in trouble. Somehow.”
Toren the skeleton didn’t say anything. It couldn’t, but it wouldn’t even if it could. It felt bad, but also good, which was a confusing feeling. Bad because Erin was mad at it, but good because it had a name.
Toren. No last name. Although why the skeleton would want two names was beyond it. But Erin had told it that was its name. Toren. It meant rook in another language, but what a rook was Toren had no idea. It was just a piece of carved stone on the board Erin liked to stare at so much.
Erin stormed through the grass, Toren meekly following in her wake. Her anger at the skeleton was rapidly dissipating, mainly because it was just taking all of her abuse. But her temper flared every time she looked back and saw the skeleton carrying the massive, and very dead, flat fish.
“And what were you thinking?Were you even thinking? Can you even think? Why would you think grabbing one of those stupid fish was a good idea?”
Toren bowed its head meekly and made no reply. The dead fish he carried in both his arms flopped around as he followed her.
Really, the skeleton hadn’t intended to kill the fish. It had leapt out at him while he’d been filling the buckets with water. But by dragging it away from its watery home, Toren had learned an important lesson: fish couldn’t breathe without water.
It hadn’t been sure if the flat fish were truly dangerous, but the skeleton was aware of their crushing strength and lethally sharp teeth. Moreover the skeleton now known as Toren had felt there was something valuable to be gained. It was—yes, it was Level 2 already from battling the adventurers. Perhaps it could gain another level by killing fish?
After all, a level wasn’t much, especially at lower-levels. But the skeleton had felt the slight shift in its overall coordination, strength, endurance, and overall fighting ability. The connection was simple in its mind. Levels were strength. So too was the [Basic Weapon Proficiency: Swords] Skill it had acquired.
It had orders. Do something productive. That could mean kill fish. So the skeleton had stuck its arm into the water and moved it around enticingly. Killing things was easy. Not like cleaning.
Thus, it had killed several of the large fish and taken them back to the inn. And it had brought one for Erin as something ‘useful’. Clearly, it had failed.
“Look, it’s not that I don’t like fish. I like fish. Dead fish that have a bit of lemon juice squeezed over the top after they’ve been roasted nicely. And maybe a bit of salt and pepper. I like those kinds of fish. Butthis fish is bad news. I tried cutting its scales off once and nearly sliced my hand off.”
That sounded like a problem, but Toren wasn’t sure what it was expected to do about it.
Erin kicked the door to her inn open, stopped as her nose registered the fishy smell, and turned to glare at Toren. The skeleton flinched back from her. Erin stormed into the kitchen, and her exclamation nearly rattled the floorboards.
“What isthis?”
Fish were easy to catch, especially since Toren didn’t mind if they latched onto its arm. But they were hard to get off, so Toren had to hack at them with its sword. Thus, the fish in Erin’s kitchen weren’t so much dead as…
Disassembled.
The fish Toren was holding was the only one that was even close to intact. The other…bits Toren had carefully collected, washed to remove dirt and blood, and then deposited in a neat heaping pile on one of the cutting boards in the kitchen.
The fish guts dripped onto the floor. Toren automatically put down its fish on the counter and went to clean up the puddle of bloody water.
“Stop that.”
The skeleton paused with the rag in its hand as Erin rubbed at her face and tried not to scream. It could sense Erin was angry, but it clearly had no idea why. Erin sighed and pointed at the dead fish.
“You did this.”
The skeleton nodded.
“I think I get it. You wanted to be helpful. This is food. Which is…helpful, right?”
Another nod. Erin sighed.
“But look—I can’t eat this. No one can. Not even the G—well, maybe the Goblins. But we don’t eat food like…”
She waved at the mess of fish. Toren appeared confused.
“It’s the scales. See these?”
Erin pointed to the sharp, glittering scales lying all over the counter.
“They’re not tasty. And these ones aresharp. If we want to eat the fish, you have to get rid of the scales. And I—I can’t do it. Seriously. Like I said, last time…”
Erin broke off. The skeleton—she kept forgetting she’d named him Toren—was nodding. It dropped the rag, walked over, and grabbed a knife. Then it grabbed the fish it had taken and raised the knife.
It had no cooking skills and probably no idea what cooking even was. It hacked energetically and completely ineffectually at the fish with the knife. Scales and guts went flying everywhere. Erin covered her face and yelped as the skeleton cut, pried, and generally ripped the scales and much of the flesh right off the fish.
“Stop, stop!”
Toren paused and looked over at her. Erin pointed.
“Outside. Do that outside, on a table or something. And after that, clean up—no, nevermind. I’ll clean up this mess, you start getting rid of those scales, okay?”
The skeleton nodded. It carefully stuck the kitchen knife between its ribs to hold it in place, lifted the huge fish with both hands, and walked out of the kitchen with it. Erin stared until she heard thescreech of wood on wood as the skeleton began dragging a table towards the door.
“I—don’t even know. I just don’t know.”
She stared down at the mess of scales and blood on the kitchen floor, then at the pile of eviscerated fish parts. It was a mess.
But—was it because they were disassembled? Somehow, Erin could tell what she could do with the fish guts now that they were in manageable pieces. Without the scales, she could fry them, use them in soups, bake them after breading them…
“I guess [Basic Cooking] doesn’t include scale removal. Or—scale removal on killer fish.”
That reminded Erin. She walked back to the entrance of the kitchen and called outside.
“Get rid of the teeth, bones, and fins too!”
She heard no response, but she was beginning to not expect one. With a sigh, Erin walked back into her kitchen and stared at the mess.
It really wasn’t that hard to clean up. And the skeletonhad found a new food source. Or rather, it had transformed an old food source into an actual source of food. For her. It had done it for her.
That was nice. And Erin had finally thought of a name for it thanks to all the online chess games and conversations she’d had with foreign players. The Dutch had some pretty cool names.
It was all fine. Even her conversation with Krshia—
“Wasn’t that weird?”
Erin murmured to herself as she began separating the obviously unusable parts of the fish on the cutting board. The gutssquelched horribly, but her mind was elsewhere.
Home. She really had tried not to think of it. But now that she had, it called to her. And it was still so far away. A mage? An archmage? Where the hell was she going to find one of those? But it was also something to focus on. A goal.
And that was good. It was all good. Except that now Erin was back in the inn, she’d remembered something. Or someones. Rags and Pisces were gone. Well, obviously they’d both left once they realized she wasn’t getting back in time for dinner. And that was good too. Erin didn’t think she could face them right now.
The fish guts were all separated, and Erin had the teeth, bones, and miscellaneous bits ready for Toren to take out and dispose of. Far away. She’d have to tell him that. He could toss them back in the stream.
She stared down at the mostly descaled bits of fish. The blood and guts stared up at her. She could cook them, though. She could turn them into something useful. It was a valuable Skill, and one she’d gotten without even having to practice. It was practically like magic.
Erin’s fist hit the pile of fish guts.
“Damnit.”
She hit the fish again. Bits of blood splattered her face, but Erin punched harder.
“Dammit. Dammit, dammit, dammit, dammit,dammit.”
She punched the flayed fish, ignoring thesquishing and the splatters of blood. She kicked the counter, hit the fish until her hands were raw and tingling, and then stopped.
“Fuck. Stupid,stupid—”
There were no right words. And all the ones she knew sounded so hollow and pitiful. Erin put her hands over her face and took them away instantly. Bits of fish clung to her skin. She looked around.
The counter and floor were even more of a mess than they’d been before. So were Erin’s clothes and her hair. She reeked of the smell of dead fish now. It would take a long time to clean up, even with Toren’s help
If she were a mage, she’d be able to clean it all up with a spell or a wave of her wand. If she were a mage, she’d be able to cook everything and relax without having to worry about a thing. If she were a mage, she might even learn how to bring herself back home.
If she could use magic…
But she couldn’t.
A few tears ran down Erin’s face. She would have wiped at her eyes, but her hands were dirty. She was dirty. And she had no magic to make it all go away. She couldn’t even dream of magic. Because she had none. And knowing that made it all so much worse.
Her tears fell onto the cutting board and mixed with the blood and death below her. Erin didn’t care. She let her tears fall and heard the sound of an owl’s wings flapping and heard the high pitched tones of a celeste, and far off in the distance, horns and violins.
For a moment, she wore robes and held a wand that sparked and glowed. In that instant, she could fly, albeit with a broom, and there was nothing that she couldn’t solve with a few latin words and a spell. For a moment.
But the magic was gone. And only Erin was left, covered in dead fish and lost.
Alone, and dreaming of home.
“…Damn it.”
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T06:40:44)
Leave typos below.
j0e (2023-03-09T11:17:20)
“Their faces were easy to read on, the other paw.”
The comma should after “read”, I assume.
j0e (2023-03-09T11:26:19)
There are several archmages.
“Archmages” should probably be capitalized.
Also, I forgot to reply to this comment when I found the other typo, please check that one out too.
Robb (2023-03-09T13:04:34)
‘even with Toren’s help’
Missing period.
QCTX (2023-03-12T18:33:06)
“creating magical dimensions and crossing betwixt them.”
between ?
juppie (2023-03-16T20:30:19)
edit suggestion:
But the skeleton had felt the slight shift in itsoverall coordination, strength, endurance, and overall fighting ability.
–>
But the skeleton had felt the slight shift in its coordination, strength, endurance, and overall fighting ability.
or
But the skeleton had felt the slight shift in its overall coordination, strength, endurance, and fighting ability.
Tyler (2023-03-20T15:51:22)
Just as a heads up, we haven’t been told that Erin named the skeleton Toren yet, so the section starting with “Toren was being” is jarring, even though I’ve read the full series and rereading the rewrite
Darby (2023-03-22T19:06:32)
That is us being told its name is Toren, explained a couple paragraphs later.  I see no issue.
Ryuuku (2023-03-24T11:07:29)
So I know this story isn’t a litPG or anything, but since there are levels, maybe there’s other quauntitized information like personal stats we can view?
juppie (2023-03-24T11:11:27)
No just levels.
Flameburst (2023-03-28T13:19:24)
Man I forgot how awful Erin was to poor Toren.
tonright (2023-05-11T14:23:44)
really been enjoying this story (read up to here in one day!) but the start of this chapter made me dislike the gnolls so much i had to put actual effort in to kicking myself out of dropping it for good lol. i hope the gnoll storyline doesn’t stick around for long.
Borantio (2023-06-12T20:13:23)
Hm what was the username of the guy to give Toren his name?
greycat (2023-07-23T15:50:25)
Pretty much every governing body works like that, in any world.  They’ll try to exploit anyone or anything for their own benefit.  Krshia at least cares about Erin, and will try to help her in return, or says she will.  That’s better than average, in my opinion.
baksban (2023-08-27T13:11:30)
Their faces were easy to read on, the other paw.
Punctuation mark in the wrong place.
marine (2023-10-27T00:05:08)
Just like how Klblch and Pawn are nicer than the Antinium leadership, I have a feeling Krishia and the local gnolls might be a lot nicer than the tribes. Or at least fit Erin’s sensibilities more.
Scrifty (2023-11-08T18:20:36)
I mean Klblch was the same way, he liked Erin (like Krishia) but he still had a duty to uphold and told his queen about her and what she was (like Krishia). It’s no different. They just needed her for different reasons.
Broock (2023-11-19T21:59:10)
Ah donc on a l’objectif principal du MC et une des grosses problématiques de l’histoire : Erin veux retourner dans son monde et il vas y avoir une course à l’information sur les technologies, l’armement, de notre monde.
Je me demande s’il vas aussi y avoir des antagonistes qui envisage l’invasion.
MrDirtyDan (2023-12-21T03:08:43)
Doesn’t make it less jarring to see someone go from a seemingly understanding and decent person to someone who is working specifically for their peoples benefit
Jul (2024-03-03T04:36:25)
I’m incredibly amazed at how naive and thoughtless Erin is. She doesn’t think at all and that’s a recurring theme since the beginning of this story from her. She just keeps going creating catastrophes left and right. At no point did she think about  any of the problems brought about by the  gnoll. And even though she is a naive pacifist she still didn’t think at all about the consequences of introducing guns and other weaponry in this world. I don’t know how she grew up but I suspect she was someone highly sheltered that only ever had to think about chess. She’s so incredibly oblivious that it get me frustrated and i have to remind myself that she’s a character
Axel (2024-03-03T07:37:46)
Welcome to reality.
Omni (2024-08-19T21:02:19)
Or maybe she wasn’t as naive and egotistical as Ryoka as to think that the cat could actually be stuffed back into the bag. There’s plenty of earthlings in the Innworld, and one of them would have spilled.
Mr anderson (2024-09-05T04:31:58)
Counterpoint, she doesn’t know that
Poutchou_u (2024-09-29T15:21:30)
Je ne comprends pas pourquoi Erin était aussi méchante avec torrent qui ne lui a fait aucun mal, tandis qu’elle est si gentil avec les gobelins qui ont constamment essayé de la tuer au début.
C’est de la méchanceté gratuite, je déteste cette Erin.
You asss (2024-10-09T03:22:23)
Yeah, you talk as if erin even knows how to make guns lmao.
AbraCadaver (2024-10-10T14:15:45)
Wanting to go home is the most realistic isekai protagonist goal, but stories always start to lose me a bit when it comes up. I’m reading about fantasy worlds toescape this one. I’d wanna see my family again too, but the idea of wanting to come here from a fantasy world is still hard to relate to because of the reason I picked up the story in the first place. 
“How else? We give her the means to protect herself.”
Please be some sort of magic :( Poor girl’s as broken up about not having any as I would be.
Teïki (2024-10-27T11:41:35)
I really like the originality of an isekai focused on the Inn and not on adventuring / levelling up.
That being said I have to admit that I am not a big fan of the 2 main characters personalities.
On one hand It’s frustrating to see Erin throwing tantrums left & right while being surprisingly thoughtless (immature?) in general.
On the other hand, Ryoka is more of a Mary Sue. It is breaking a bit my suspension of disbelief that a teenager / young adult from our world managed, as a side-hobby, to become on her spare time :
1. One of the fastest runner in a world where it’s actually a full time to job to run between cities and where your actual survival rely on outrunning beasts.
2. Better at Parkour / roof-fighting than a mid-level professional assassin specialised in that sort of activities.
3. Managing to hold her end of a fight with a professional warrior whom survival once again relies on his fighting skills.
That being said, this story remains pleasant to read and really original in its own right so kudo to the author :)
SamArcher72 (2024-12-13T10:32:31)
Damn , that’s kinda heartbreaking, I believe she would have been happy even if she was evaluated to be average /bad at magic but tobe told she simply has no possibility must hurt so much .

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.49
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-49/

When Erin woke up the next day, her eyes were tired and she was full of bleh.
Bleh being her word for her mood.
“Bleh.”
Toren paused and stared at her. Erin blinked at the walking skeleton with blue flames in its eyes and made weak shooing motions until it went away.
She didn’t feel like dealing with it. And by it she meant anything. And that included existing.
Erin stared down into a bowl of chewy oat-equivalents and wondered why the grains had an orange-gold rind. Apparently, they were dried Yellat flakes, a cheap food you could buy. They didn’t taste bad, but the orangy-ness…maybe it was the dirt?
It tasted okay, but bleh. And while Erin had money, she couldn’t afford to put much sugar in her meals. She had to save for the future.
And that was bleh. The idea of how much money she needed, the logistics of her inn, and the day-to-day work of maintaining it—it was all bleh, and it could go to bleh.
At least now she was able to automate most of the work—or rather, make Toren do all of it. The skeleton bustled around the inn, scrubbing at obstinate stains, hauling buckets of water in, and it had even managed to figure out how to put food on plates and carry them out.
It just didn’t have any idea of how carpentry or cooking worked. Erin had tried—but the skeleton didn’t quite get the idea ofnot stirring food with its bony arm or how beds were supposed to look.
It didn’t matter. With a little work, Erin had actually managed to transform the upstairs into a livable place. All of the mattresses had been rotted horribly and had to be disposed of, but some of the bed frames only needed a backboard replaced or a few boards changed.
Erin’s inn could now house quite a number of guests. It was just that Erin didn’t have anyone to put up there. And that included her. For the moment, Erin was still sleeping in the little nest she’d made in the corner of her kitchen. She had blankets, pillows, and it was a pain to haul all that upstairs and get situated again.
There was always Pisces, of course, but Erin really didn’t need a permanent squatter in her inn. Especially because his only payment came in the form of an occasional rambling lecture to Rags.
“Bleh.”
This time, Toren offered her a cup of juice. Erin took it and drank. It helped, but even a full belly wasn’t improving her mood.
Rags. Goblins and magic. Magic. Erin’s stomach gurgled at her, although that was probably just a reaction to the blue juice and the oatmeal.
She spent ten or twenty unhappy minutes in the newly made outhouse, testing the equipment as it were. Afterwards, Erin staggered outside, giving thanks that an equivalent to toilet paper existed in this world. But it was just more proof that this day was going to be a bad one, in her opinion.
If there was a bright ray of light on the horizon, it was tonight. Tonight was chess night.
That was to say, every night was chess night. Pawn had been bringing groups of Workers over with surprising regularity, and Erin enjoyed playing the Antinium.
They never won, of course. Even the best players—Pawn and one of the Workers—never even came close. But Erin loved chess in her bones, and more than that, she enjoyed seeing the Workers improve.
They had the most beautiful attitude towards chess she could ask for. Which was not throwing a tantrum when they lost—and she played seriously—but trying to learn. Realizing the game was deeper. It reminded her why she enjoyed the game, and that was a high-point in her life.
But that was later. For now, Erin had to go into the city. She needed pillows for her newly refurbished beds.
“Take care of the inn, okay?”
Toren nodded his head mechanically as Erin stomped out of the inn, her precious bag of coins tucked deep into her pocket. He raised the wet dustrag in his hands like a sword and attacked the dust.
If the skeleton had any thoughts on the day, it was simply that it was a shame he wasn’t killing anything. He understood in a vague way that he would not acquire the [Innkeeper] class because he did not in fact own an inn, but the [Barmaid] class was, he felt, something of a misnomer.
At least he was Level 2.
——
As Erin walked through the eastern gates, the Gnoll guard smiled toothily at her.
“Good day to you, Erin Solstice.”
“Hey…you.”
She had no idea what his name was. But the Gnoll seemed friendly enough. He looked bored, possibly because the only visitor he’d had was Erin.
Not many people used the road east. North was where the action was—where the main road took you to the northern cities and where all the adventurers, merchants, and general influx of Humanity was coming from. There was a road south, but it seemed few people used the eastern or southern gates at all.
And that was a curious thing. Erinknew there was a road that passed by her inn down south, and she’d seen it. But it seemed ill-kept compared to the well-established northern route. And the eastern ‘road’ was almost completely gone. There were only traces that led towards her inn.
Why? And why had there been an inn so close and yet so far from the city? Was there once a road there?
“Yeah, but most of the settlements got destroyed during the wars. Ever since, few people have lived outside of the city. Besides you. And no one goes south unless it’s winter because of the Bloodfields.”
For a few seconds, Erin thought the voice had come out of some strange part of her mind. Then she whirled around and realized she’d been talking out loud—and someone had provided her with an answer.
“Relc!”
The Drake leaned on his spear, grinning at her. Sort of grinning. Like the Gnoll, there were a lot of teeth.
“Yo.”
“Um, hi. I haven’t seen you around. What’s up?”
“I was looking for you. You busy? Because you are now.”
“I was going to buy pillows—”
“Really? You might have trouble with that. Did you hear what happened last night?”
“Last night?”
Curious, Erin followed Relc as the Drake walked speedily towards Market Street. It was disconcerting how quickly he could move despite giving the appearance of ambling along. It was definitely some sort of Skill.
Erin stopped as she turned the corner to Market Street.
“Oh man.”
“Yeah.”
Relc twirled his spear idly as Erin stared at the wreckage. And that was all it was.
Wreckage.
Nearly half of Market Street had been destroyed. Burnt, in point of fact. To a crisp. A fire had swept through the close, confined wooden stalls. They were meant to be just temporary structures, easily deconstructed for the next shopkeeper to display their wares. But the problem was that wood burned easily, and so when a fire did break out…
Even the stones in the street had cracked from the heat. Erin didn’t know rockscould break from heating up, but the street had been shattered quite impressively.
“Normally, someone would have raised the alarm, and we’d have put out the fire quick. But it happened late last night, and by the time we got one of the mages out here, it was too hot.”
Erin glanced at Relc, and the Drake shrugged.
“Low-level mages. And there’s not much call for water magic specialization around here. We had to let the fire burn out and clear the rest of the street before it spread.”
It was destruction. To starve the fire of flames, the Watch and firefighting teams had smashed and cleared the rest of the stalls, shoving the wood splinters out of the way.
It hurt Erin’s heart to see. And it hurt even more because the street wasn’t empty. She could see Drakes and Gnolls, shopkeepers staring forlornly at their abandoned goods. It hurt her heart, because she could see some of them were crying.
Scaly or furry they might be, but their tears looked the same.
Relc stared grimly at the burnt-out street. He spoke quietly to Erin.
“Everyone’s saying it’s a Human that did it.”
“Really?”
Probably everyone was saying that, or at least everyone Relc talked to. Humans might have other opinions. But it probablywas a Human, at least in Erin’s mind. She couldn’t see Drakes being dumb enough to burn down part of their city by accident, and Gnolls were highly flammable. And the Antinium—
No. There were already Workers picking through the rubble, slowly and methodically clearing away the destroyed part of the street. They wouldn’t have set a fire.
“Why would a Human do it, though?”
Relc glanced at Erin.
“Oh, it was the mystery thief. Someone caught them last night, and they started a fire to get away.”
“How? With a match or…?”
“A what? They used fire magic. A spell.”
Oh. Obviously. Erin’s eyes were caught by an older Drake trying to salvage something from her shop. She spoke distantly.
“Isn’t there a way to track this thief down? Magic? Or…some kind of Skill?”
Relc shook his head.
“This thief has some good magic—and not just the fire magic. A magical item, maybe. And high-level [Guardsmen] do get tracking skills, but almost all of the Watch here are former soldiers. We’ve got more levels in combat classes than our current class. We did have one [Guardsman] with high levels, but that was Klbkch..”
The comment hit Erin in the gut, and for a second, Relc looked guilty. But he didn’t apologize.
“We’re working on it. No one’s happy. Normally, we’d have caught the thief, but there are so many of you damn Humans in the city—no offense.”
Erin took offense, but she let it drop. Relc wasn’t happy. He was staring at his damaged city with narrowed eyes, and she didn’t have anything to say. Certainly nothing to defend the thief. So instead she changed the subject.
“I…haven’t seen you around the inn lately.”
Relc shrugged again indifferently.
“Too many damn Goblins around. I’d clean them up, but apparently that’s not allowed.”
Erin glanced sideways at Relc. The Drake met her eyes and then went back to studying the street.
“They’re not all bad, you know.”
He snorted.
“You think the little freaks you’ve been feeding aregood? I hear they’ve been fighting a war with the rest of their tribe—when they’re not scaring travellers and stealing their goods.”
For a moment, Erin felt a lurch of panic and fear in her chest.
“You’re not—not going to have to hunt them down are you?”
“I don’t really care. So long as we don’t get orders, we’ll leave them alone if they stay clear of the city. Goblins are part of the wild. If you get rid of too many, the bigger monsters don’t have anything to snack on.”
“Oh. Um, t—”
“Don’t thank me. I just don’t feel like doing more than I have to for my job, that’s all.”
Silence. Erin stared at the ground. Relc’s eyes narrowed as he watched the Workers slowly sweeping down the street.
“They don’t even care Klb died.”
“Yeah. They, um, don’t seem to care about death. It’s not their fault.”
“I know. They’re bugs. But Klbkch was special.”
“He was.”
Yet the Workers didn’t mourn him, and that hurt Erin—but it hurt Relc more. She thought the Workers had their reasons, but Relc just kept speaking, louder, his tail lashing faster.
“Not just because he was a guard, y’know? He was different. He had aname. I couldn’t believe it when he introduced himself. And he’s the only Antinium I’ve ever heard of with a level higher than 10. He was special.”
Erin was silent. She stared at the large Drake and saw his chest heaving with emotion. The Drake’s fist tightened on the shaft of his spear.
“But they don’t care. They talk about Klb as if he’s just gone off somewhere. As if his death never happened. Even the Queen didn’t put up much of a fuss.”
Erin thought about the massive Antinium Soldiers marching down the street and taking her to meet the Queen.
“You think so?”
Relc eyed Erin darkly.
“You’re not dead, so I’d say she took it well. She kept talking about ‘time lost’ and ‘needless valuable resources expended’ when she talked with the Captain. But never about Klbkch.”
The Drake’s head bowed. He stabbed his spear into the paving stones, and the stonescracked and shifted around the tip of his spear. He leaned on it, staring darkly down at the ground.
“No one cares.”
“I care.”
“I know. But you’re different.”
For a while, the two stood still, awkwardly, alone rather than together. Erin’s hearthurt. But though the Human thing to do would be to pat Relc on the back or say something meaningless, she knew he didn’t want anything from her.
He still hated her. Or if he didn’t hate her, he blamed her.
And she would say nothing against that.
At last, Relc shifted his weight and pulled his spear out of the street. He looked down at Erin.
“By the way—and not that I care too much, but you should know—there’s a new Prognugator in the city.”
The word sounded familiar. Erin frowned.
“A what?”
“It was what Klbkch was. Don’t ask me what it means. It’s some important role in the Antinium Hive. Their war-leaders were called that—but Klbkch told me it’s deeper. They’re pretty much like Watch Captains, though. For their entire Hive.”
The idea of the Antinium needing any kind of policing sounded ridiculous to Erin. She couldn’t imagine them doing anything criminal, but then she remembered Klbkch herding the Workers like cattle. Maybe a Prognugator was like some sort of sheepdog, only with people.
“Okay. Is he going to be part of the Watch?”
Unexpectedly, Relc frowned.
“I hope not. Not if I have anything to say about it. I think this one will stay in the Hive.”
“Okay. Why are you telling me, then?”
Relc hesitated.
“He looks—familiar. Just don’t freak out, okay?”
“Sure.”
The Drake scratched at the spines on his head.
“Right. Well, I’ve got to go back to work. Oh—that’s right. I’m supposed to give you a warning.”
“A warning?”
“Yeah. Apparently you got into a fight with a bunch of adventurers, right? Beat them up and stole their stuff?”
Oh. Erin felt like slapping herself. Of course.
“Um, yes. I did. But they were attacking—”
“The damn Goblins. Whatever. Don’t worry; I’m not going to arrest you. I’m just giving you a warning. I also hear you’ve got a pet skeleton.”
“Yes. His name’s Toren. Uh—”
“I don’t care. It sounds creepy, but whatever you Humans like is fine by me. Just keep him out of the city. I just needed to give you a warning.”
“Not to do it again?”
Relc looked surprised. Then he grinned.
“Oh, no. When we heard about three Human adventurers getting their tails kicked by an Innkeeper, some Workers, and a few Goblins, we laughed our scales off. We don’t care about what happens to those Humans. Just keep the skeleton away, and if that crazy [Necromancer] tries raising any more bodies, stop him.”
“You’re not going to do anything? Really?”
This time, the Drake lowered his voice, glancing around surreptitiously.
“Maybe if we had time—but we don’t. The Watch is overwhelmed right now. Those damn adventurers keep disappearing into the ruins, and we’ve had to patrol the area to catch all the things that come crawling out of there.”
Relc made a face and twirled his spear in one hand. Erin’s stomach decided it was time to start lurching. She would have preferred it stay on ‘bleh’.
“Things? Like…what kind of things?”
“Squiggly things. Lots of white tentacles and flesh. Disgusting. We think there’s some kind of brood monster in there, but no one who goes in that far has come out to tell us what it is. And the rest of the cowards are just clearing the rooms one at a time.”
Relc sighed, muttered a bit about Humans and adventurers in general, and glanced at the sky.
“I’ve got to get back there.”
“Oh. Okay. I’ll see you around.”
“Maybe.”
The Drake raised one hand in farewell as he trotted off. Erin watched him go. Her eyes turned back to the ruined street.
Misery and devastation. It wasn’t hers, but she still felt for the people affected by the fire. A thief and the ruins.
None of these things were her problem. But theywere her problem because she lived here. Not by choice, but Erin felt like the city was suffering. Suffering, and she wondered what it would take to heal.
At the very least, Erin wouldn’t get her pillows today. Not unless a certain Gnoll had any in stock.
——
“I am sorry, Erin Solstice, but everything is chaos, no? I was lucky not to lose my goods, but many have lost all. Pillows must wait. Come back another day, please.”
Krshia barely had the time to spare as she talked seriously with a bunch of angry Gnoll and Drake shopkeepers. The merchants of Market Street were gathered together in some sort of conclave, and Krshia was one of the more influential—and vocal—shopkeepers in the crowd.
Erin left them to it, especially because she was getting a lot of casually hostile glances. It was completely understandable that the shopkeepers were angry, and there were other things she could do. Like talk with friends.
——
“What?”
Selys had to shout above the clamor in the packed Adventurer’s Guild. She and the other three receptionist Drakes were trying to deal with multiple adventurers at once while the room was full of arguments, minor scuffles, spirited dialogue, and not least, theclank of countless weapons and armor rubbing together.
The female Drake shook her head as Erin repeated her question.
“I can’t, Erin. We’re all working overtime as it is. All the adventurers coming through—excuse me, the Human with the red hair and face-thing?”
Several adventurers looked up, and the mustached adventurer stepped forwards, holding a bag of dripping somethings. He looked so amazingly hurt that Erin bet no one had ever referred to his mustache as a ‘face-thing’. Selys gestured impatiently to the side.
“Give that to Warsh, please. The Drake over there? The one with yellow scales? Thank you.”
Selys turned back to Erin and shook her head. The other girl nodded, tried not to touch the shouting adventurer covered in blood and…guts, and made her way out of the building.
It was completely fine. Selys had a lot to do, after all, and the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor was never meant to deal with the huge influx of treasure seekers. It was too bad. But it was just—it was just—
——
“It’s just thatI don’t know what I should be doing, you know?”
Erin complained as she moved a knight on the chess board and stole one of Pawn’s rooks. The Antinium made a sound of dismay but kept staring at the board as Erin chattered away.
“I get that Krshia and Selys are busy. And so is Relc, although we barely talk and he hates my guts. But what should I do? I mean, obviously I’m running the inn, but I feel like there’s something else I should do. Something…useful besides cooking, eating, and paying for pillows.”
Carefully, Pawn moved one of his knights forward. Instantly, Erin took it with a bishop, trading the pieces. It wasn’t a good exchange—as bishops were technically worth about the same strategically as knights, but it did open up Pawn’s king for a lovely attack by Erin’s queen.
“I mean, what should I do? I need money, but it’s not as if this inn is hopping at the best of times. And I need several hundred gold pieces. That’d take years. The only way I might get that much money in one go is to become an adventurer, but I don’t really want to stab stuff or have my insides yanked out through my nose.”
Pawn desperately tried to search for a winning strategy on his invaded side of the chess board. He found one—the same strategy that would end up in a checkmate eight moves down. Erin had noticed that three moves ago.
Delicately, the Antinium moved a pawn forwards and spoke.
“I am not sure I have any advice to give you, Erin Solstice. I am not experienced in the ways of this world.”
“You probably know more than I do.”
“It may be so, but my knowledge extends mainly to my Hive. I was notI until very recently. Thus, my awareness is only now expanding.”
“I get it.”
Erin sighed, took one of Pawn’s pieces, and waited for him to take her rook.
“I just wish I didn’t feel this way.”
“Which way is this?”
Pawn took her rook. Erin took his queen.
“So useless.”
A faint groan escaped the Antinium Worker. He studied the board and then shook his head.
“I have lost.”
The other Workers nodded in agreement as they stared at the board. The pairs that were playing glanced up and stared silently at Pawn’s board before returning to their games.
“Good game. You want to play another round?”
Pawn nodded, and the two players began rearranging the board. It was their fourth game, and they’d been playing long enough that the sun was already fading behind the mountaintops.
It was fun to play. But Erin had the same feeling she was trying to express to Pawn. It was fun to play, but she neverlost.
That was okay. She was, if not as incredible as an International Master or even a Grandmaster, at an exceptionally high level of play back home. The love of the game and teaching new players was enough—and they were very good despite having picked up the game a week ago. Yet chess…if the world were decided by chess games, it would be so much easier for her.
“I just wish I could do something important, that’s all. Something useful.”
“Was Erin important back in her world?”
“What? No. Not at all. I was just a girl who played chess. Heck, I wasn’t even in college yet. I was trying to save up money for that.”
“Then the Erin of now is surely an improvement as she is both an [Innkeeper] and one who teaches chess. I fail to understand the problem.”
“Well, yeah, but—”
A few tables down, Rags snorted loudly. Erin looked over. The Goblin stared silently at her and then reached over and poked the Worker’s king with one finger. It toppled over.
“Hey! That’s really rude!”
Rags made a face as Erin glared at her. But the Worker she’d been playing bowed its head towards Erin.
“This one had lost the game. This one apologizes for time wasted.”
“It’s not your fault. Even if the game’s nearly over, you’re the one who decides that. Knocking over someone else’s king is rude. Got it?”
The Worker bowed his head, but Rags just scowled. Erin amped up her death-glare, and Rags reluctantly muttered something.
It was pretty much the only problem that reared its head when Erin had everyone playing chess. In the hierarchy of skill within the inn, Erin was the undisputed champion. After her came Pawn and Rags, with Pawn being the better player, but only just. Below them were various Workers who could play decent games, but Rags was never quite happy unless the little Goblin was playing Erin.
It was an issue of arrogance, and Erin remembered what it was like—being impatient at having to play mediocre players. But Rags was still a rank novice by Erin’s standards, and rudeness in chess was something she wouldn’t tolerate.
But still, Rags hadn’t played Erin yet tonight. Reluctantly, Erin looked at Pawn.
“Sorry, but do you think—?”
The Antinium was already shifting from her table. His courteous nature never failed to surprise Erin. She sighed as Rags jumped off of her chair and marched over to her table.
“Okay, let’s play. But if you touch my king, I’m going to chop you up, got it?”
The Goblin didn’t answer. She was already rearranging her pieces.
Sighing exasperatedly, Erin waved a hand.
“Toren! I’ll have some water.”
The skeleton who had been moving around the room with a huge bowl of Acid Flies turned and nodded. He disappeared into the kitchen and reemerged with a tall glass of water in his bony hand.
There were some benefits to having a skeleton waiter. Not least of which was that Erin could devote all of her time to playing chess. She sat back as Rags studied the board and waited for the first move.
The Goblin played unusual strategies all the time, which made her a delight to duel. By contrast, Pawn had the fundamental moves memorized and played solid games. It won him more games, but Erin had to admit she admired the Goblin’s daring in her aggressive tactics.
Rags’ fingers closed around a pawn, and then the Goblin froze. Her pointed ears twitched, and she stared at the door.
Erin looked up. A few seconds of silence passed, and then she heard someone knocking politely on the door.
“Come in!”
The door slowly swung open. Erin caught a glimpse of a familiar black body and four arms and smiled. Another Worker to play with. But then her thoughts hit a snag. Workers couldn’t leave the city without Pawn. They were—
The Antinium stepped fully into the inn, and Erin froze. She was dreaming. Rags had stabbed her in the chest, and Erin was dying on the table. She’d had a heart attack—or a stroke, and this was the last thing she saw before she died. It had to be that. She had to be dreaming.
Because the Antinium who walked into the inn could not be who she thought he was.
On first glance, he looked like any other Antinium. He had four arms, antennae, large multifaceted eyes, and the two curiously segmented legs all lined with brown-black exoskeleton. That was normal.
But this Antinium was different. He was built slimmer than the Workers, and his carapace might have been a shade darker. But more than that, he resembled someone Erin knew. In every small detail, in every part of his body, from the way he stood to the two swords and two daggers at his side, he looked exactly like—
“Klbkch?”
The Antinium turned his head, and Erin felt her heart stop for a moment. He bowed his head to her and approached.
“Good evening. Am I speaking to the [Innkeeper] known as Erin Solstice?”
His voice was exactly the same as Klbkch’s. Erin wrestled with words around a tongue that had stopped working.
“Yes—yes I—are you—?”
The Antinium nodded.
“Allow me to introduce myself. I am not Klbkch. Please refrain from making this error in judgment at any point in the future. My name is Ksmvr of the Antinium of Liscor. I serve my Queen as Prognugator. I have come on business of the Hive.”
It wasn’t Klbkch. But itwas. Erin was struck dumb for words. He stood like Klbkch. His swords were the same as Klbkch’s, although the steel was just that instead of the silvery metal. Even the way he walked and talked was—
She was trying to come up with a response and not start crying at the same time while she digested his words.
Ksmvr paused and then nodded.
“I understand my resemblance to my predecessor has caused issues. I apologize for any confusion.”
“Oh, no—”
Erin wanted to say ‘it’s nothing’, but it would be a lie. She sat still, rigid in her seat as Rags stared hard at Ksmvr. All the other Workers were frozen in their seats. But Pawn—
Ksmvr looked around the room. His silent, studying gaze found each Worker as the other Antinium stared at the floor. Then he spotted Pawn. The Worker hesitated and half-rose from his seat.
Instantly, the air rang as Ksmvr’s blades shot out of their sheathes. The Antinium held all four arms on guard and pointed one of his daggers at Pawn.
“Remain still, Worker.”
Erin gaped. Pawn began trembling, and the other Workers instantly began moving out of the way. Ksmvr advanced, swords at the ready.
“Wait. What are you doing?”
Ksmvr’s head moved sideways a fraction as he spoke. But his blades never shifted an inch.
“I have come to ascertain the state of the Worker which refers to itself as ‘Pawn’. I will bring this Worker back into the city with me. I apologize for any inconvenience.”
He stood over Pawn and raised one sword just under the tip of the other Antinium’s chin.
“Stand. Make no sudden movements. You will be questioned.”
Meekly, Pawn did as he was instructed. Erin was staring, horrified. It seemed like—
“Wait, I don’t understand. Why are you taking him? Has he done something wrong?”
Ksmvr paused. He seemed reluctant to explain.
“…It is common knowledge that those Antinium who refer to themselves as individuals or have names are subject to fits of violence and unpredictability. More, I cannot say, but my role is to judge such errant individuals and terminate them if necessary.”
The casual way he said it made Erin’s blood run cold. And now that she was thinking again, she saw Pawn was trembling as Ksmvr held his sword under his chin.
“Wait a second. Wait a second. I know Pawn. He hasn’t done anything wrong, and I’ve been playing chess with him every day for the last few weeks. Why are you taking him now?”
Again, Ksmvr paused before replying.
“The Hive within Liscor has been in—disarray. My appointment to this position was out of necessity. All shall be restored to order shortly. Until then, I carry out my roles.”
He looked at Pawn.
“We will return to the Hive. Any actions will be met with appropriate punishment. Is that clear?”
Pawn nodded. He slowly moved with Ksmvr’s blade poking into his back. The Prognugator would have pushed him out the door, but Erin was suddenly in the way.
“Hold it.”
“Please move aside, Erin Solstice.”
“You haven’t explained anything. Pawn did nothing wrong. He has a name, but I was the one who gave it to him. What do you mean you’ll terminate him? And—and why do you look like Klbkch? What’s a Prognugator?”
“I am on business of my Hive. I cannot answer your questions. Please move aside.”
“No.”
Pawn spoke. His voice trembled with nerves as he spoke to Erin.
“Please, Miss Solstice. This is a matter of the Antinium. I knew it would come. Do not interfere—”
Ksmvr moved. His sword flashed, and Pawnscreeched, clutching a severed antenna.
“The Worker will remain silent.”
Quaking, Pawn clutched at his bleeding stump and shut up. Ksmvr prodded him forwards, blade tips sinking into the Worker’s exoskeleton, but now Erin was right in front of him.
“That’s enough. Pawn is my guest. I won’t let you take him.”
Ksmvr stared at Erin expressionlessly.
“Interfering with my duties is a crime.”
“Youcut him for speaking. I’m not letting you anywhere near him unless you explain things. No—better yet, I want to go with him.”
“That is unacceptable. Move aside.”
“No.”
“I will not request twice. Be warned—”
“I saidno. Didn’t you hear me?”
“I did. Very well.”
Erin didn’t see the Antinium’s hand move. But she felt something solid strike her so hard she saw stars and tasted blood. Erin stumbled away and heard a furiousclatter.
Toren rushed at Ksmvr, barehanded except for a spoon it had picked up from a table. Ksmvr turned his head calmly, and two of his arms moved.
The hilt of his sword and dagger smashed into the skeleton so hard that the undead construct paused. Ksmvr’s arm blurred again, and suddenly, Toren was headless.
With one leg, the Antiniumkicked the skeleton across the room, scattering Toren’s bones. He turned calmly back to Pawn.
“Move. Walk slowly without deviation.”
“W-wait.”
Erin could only see stars. And her jaw was already swelling, but she still staggered towards Ksmvr. She stopped as two daggers pointed her way.
“Your interference has been noted. Your complaints will be heard by my Queen once she has completed her business. Regrettably, she is indisposed at the moment, but you may request an audience at a later date.”
“I won’t—let you take Pawn. You don’t have to do this.”
Ksmvr paused and then shook his head. He spoke without inflection.
“My position is temporary. But any possibility of a Worker becoming Aberration must be dealt with swiftly. Interfere and I will be forced to consider you an enemy.”
He opened the door. Pawn meekly walked through it. Ksmvr paused, one hand on the door. He nodded at Erin as the girl stared at him, horrified.
“Good day to you. My apologies for the interruption.”
The door closed behind him softly.
——
Erin stared at the door for a full minute, thoughts whirling, before she moved. She paused only long enough to make sure Toren was reassembling himself. Rags was squatting next to the skeleton, offering it bones and watching with interest as the skeleton pieced itself together one part at a time.
She had no time to wait for the skeleton. Erin ran into the kitchen and reemerged with a frying pan, the biggest one she had. She flung the door open and made it two steps outside before the Workers grabbed her.
“Let—go of me!”
“Innkeeper Solstice must not interfere. Innkeeper Solstice must not.”
“Get off! I’m going to save Pawn! Let go!”
Erin struggled, but three Workers had her in grips like steel, and the others were surrounding them. They spoke—a group speaking as one.
“The Prognugator must not be disturbed. The Prognugator will slay all who interfere. Innkeeper Solstice must not die. Innkeeper Solstice must not die.”
Erin struggled. The Workers didn’t want to hurt her. At last, she managed to wriggle out of their grips. She broke free of the mob and ran down the hill towards Liscor.
She made it several miles before the Workers caught up. They weren’t fast, but they didn’t tire. They held her.
“Innkeeper Solstice must not.”
“Why?”
She shouted it at the Worker who’d caught her. He flinched, but she was beyond caring.
“What is that Ksmvr guy doing? Why does he lookexactly like Klbkch!”
The Worker hesitated and then shook his head.
“It is forbidden to speak of Hive matters to outsiders. This one may not speak.”
Erin snapped. She took a deep breath and shouted in the Worker’s face.
“I am your chess teacher! I am Innkeeper Solstice, and Iorder you to tell me!”
He hesitated. Erin grabbed him by his cool, smooth exoskeleton.
“Tell me!”
The Worker hesitated. He looked at the other Workers surrounding him, and she saw them agree almost as one. It looked hesitantly back at Erin.
“This one—these ones believe the individual known as Pawn will be interrogated.”
“Interrogated? Why?”
“To determine if the individual known as Pawn is Aberration.”
“And if he is?”
“He will be executed.”
Erin’s blood went cold. She struggled, but the Worker held her.
“That’s crazy! Why? What did he do wrong?”
“Those who are Aberration kill. They are Individual and reject the Hive. They destroy.”
“But Pawnisn’t violent!”
Erin stopped and stared at the Worker.
“He isn’t. You know it. I know it. He hasn’t done anything. So he’s not an Aberration, right?”
The Worker hesitated again and stared at his comrades.
“It may be so.”
“Itis so!”
“No Worker who has become individual has ever not been Aberration.”
“None?”
Erin stared at the Worker. He and the others shook their heads.
“Pawn is different, though. He is. So—that Ksmvr guy will let him go, right?”
They hesitated.
“Right?”
“If the individual known as Pawn is not Aberration, he may be allowed freedom within the Hive.”
Erin was no good at reading Workers’ expressions. But even she could tell that the Workers didn’t think this was very likely. She stared at them.
“I’m going to stop it.”
“It is too late. The Hive will be sealed while the individual known as Pawn is questioned. Innkeeper Solstice will not be able to enter.”
“I must.”
“It is impossible. Innkeeper Solstice must go back to her inn.”
“I’ve got to go. Imust.”
“It is impossible.”
“I must go.”
“It is impossible.”
“I—”
——
In the end, the Workers left. And they left Erin behind. She stood, holding the heavy frying pan in the middle of the plains, and watched the Workers slowly trudge across the dark plains towards Liscor.
She wanted to run after them. But they’d convinced her—finally convinced her—that even if she followed them there would be nothing she could do. They would enter the Hive, but apparently it would be sealed by the fearsome Antinium Soldiers, who would kill her on sight if she intruded. And Ksmvr would be deep within the Hive, interrogating Pawn for signs of Aberration, whatever that meant.
Erin would never reach him. So she stayed and felt like she was betraying Pawn. But she would never reach him. All Erin could do was pray.
Slowly, Erin walked back towards her inn. Her mind was full of confusion, fear, panic, a whirlwind of emotions. But those thoughts vanished from her head when she heard the shouting.
It came from her inn. Erin stared up the hill and saw a group of dark shapes standing outside the inn. They were yelling something.
“Goblin!”
“More of them over there! Kill them!”
“Watch it! One of them knows magic!”
“Get it off! There’s a skeleton too! Toss me my sword!”
Erin ran. She charged up the hill as fast as she could. Her inn was lit from the inside, the lamps Toren had lit the only light besides the stars. In the glow from the windows, she could see seven—maybe more people—striking out at Rags and her group of Goblins.
They’d been caught unawares, but the adventurers were already pulling out weapons. One of them—a massive Minotaur—pulled a humongous battle axe from his back and swung it with a roar of fury. Rags dodged the massive blade as it bit into the soil with a shrill cry of alarm. She swung her short sword, but a mage in robes pointed, and the Goblin had to dive or be consumed by the flames that shot from the mage’s staff.
“Hey!”
Erin didn’t even bother with words. As the adventurers charged, she raised the frying pan andhurled it as hard as she could at the Minotaur. The pan flew straight at the massive bull-man’s head, courtesy of Erin’s [Unerring Throw] Skill.
The Minotaur blinked as the pan flew at him. His hand shot up, grabbed the cast-iron skillet by the handle, and halted it in midair.
Erin froze. The Goblins took one look at the Minotaur holding the frying pan and ran. One of the adventurers raised a bow, but Erin ran forwards andkicked him in the stomach. He doubled over.
Suddenly, Erin was alone and surrounded by adventurers. They stared at her, confused. One of them—a girl with pointy ears—held up her hand and stopped the other adventurers from attacking. The Minotaur stared at Erin, curious.
He’d stopped the flying frying pan of justice with one hand. Erin gulped and thought fast. Her attack had failed, although Rags and her friends were clear. So that left words.
“Hey! What do you think you’re doing?”
The adventurers stared incredulously at her.
“What do you thinkyou’re doing?”
“I own this place! What are you doing attacking my guests?”
“Guests?”
A guy with a long mustache gaped at Erin. He stared at the fleeing Goblins.
“They’reGoblins! And there’s a skeleton in there!”
He pointed at Toren, who was lying disassembled inside of Erin’s inn.
“They’re my guests. And that’smy skeleton you just beat up! This is my inn, and no one kills Goblins around here! Didn’t you read the sign? Does anyone read the damn sign?”
The adventurers, or rather, the Silver-rank adventuring group known as the Horns of Hammerad, stared at each other in confusion. The night sky made everything nearly impossible to see. Gerial stared at Erin and then looked around.
“There’s a sign?”
——
Erin sat in her inn, staring at the group of men, women, and one Elf and Minotaur as they sat awkwardly across from her. All of them stared alternatively at her and at Toren as the skeleton walked around the inn, cleaning up the Workers’ dishes and the chess sets.
They weren’t about to say anything else, so Erin spoke.
“Let me get this straight. You guys are an adventuring group, and you just happened to drop by.”
“That’s right. We knew there was an inn in the area, and we wondered if it was still open.”
That came from the Elf-girl, sitting closest to Erin. She was distractingly beautiful, with features that were literally nothing like anything Erin had seen in her world. She smiled politely at Erin, and the girl had to prevent herself from gaping.
Erin looked at the Minotaur instead. He was also something she’d never seen, but she wasn’t as distracted by him. Rather, his bullish head and rippling muscles made her feel like she was talking to a cow that had decided to start working out and was walking around on two legs.
Which, when you got down to it, was pretty much a Minotaur.
“So you lot came here, saw the inn was full of Goblins, and decided to kill them all, right?”
The adventurers shifted in their seats. One of them shrugged.
“Well—yes.”
“Why?”
The armed men and women exchanged glances. One literally trapped a finger against her helmet and grimaced in confusion. Another—a guy in armor with a flowing mustache—shook his head.
“They’reGoblins. They’re monsters. We’re adventurers. I’m sorry Miss, but we were just doing our jobs.”
Erin knew that, but she didn’t have to like it. But they hadn’t killed any Goblins, and she’d made them explain three times already. And they were staring at her, so she decided to change topics.
“Okay. So you’re adventurers from up north. You said you had a name…?”
“The Horns of Hammerad.”
That came from the Minotaur. He was still staring at Erin curiously, but without threatening to rip her head off, which is what she sort of assumed was Minotaur behavior.
“And how did you know the inn was here?”
The man with the mustache cleared his throat awkwardly.
“We were, ah, here before.”
“I don’t remember that.”
“I believe you were out at the time.”
Ceria smiled at Erin. She nodded to the skeleton.
“But I can prove we weren’t doing anything wrong. We were here to meet a certain [Necromancer] at the time. It’s just a guess, but I’m betting you know him.”
Erin looked at Toren, and the skeleton looked inquiringly back at her. He was still wearing his sword belted to his bony waist, and the skeleton was eying the Horns of Hammerad as if it considered them to be a threat. Then she focused on the [Necromancer] part and groaned through her teeth.
Even when he was gone—Pisces! She spoke slowly, but with a growing sense of resignation.
“I might know him. This, uh, necromancer. Can you describe him?”
“He’s quite annoying.”
Erin’s head ducked.
“Right, that’s Pisces. Okay, so you know him. And you’re here. And I guess you didn’t see the sign about not killing Goblins. Mistakes were made.”
Erin sighed and tried to relax. She looked at the group of adventurers again.
“So, what do the Horns of Hammerbad want with me?”
The Minotaur’s eye twitched, but the Elf spoke again. She might be their leader, or maybe it was mustache-guy.
“We’re looking for a place to stay.”
Erin looked blank. She pointed out the window.
“The city’s that way.”
“Yes, but every tavern, inn, and home is full to the rafters with adventurers. There’s nowhere to sleep—not even in a shed. So we came here.”
Erin still looked blank.
“Why?”
“This…is an inn, correct? Don’t you have rooms to rent?”
“What? Oh.Oh. Yeah, I’ve got them. Tons of them. All empty.”
Silence. The Horns of Hammerad exchanged a glance. Ceria coughed politely and smiled at Erin.
“Could we perhaps stay here? I promise you we won’t cause any trouble, and we have plenty of coin.”
That had a hollow ring to it after the earlier incident. Erin thought it over, chewing at her lip.
“I don’t like people who attack Goblins. They’re my guests, and you chased them off.”
This comment seemed to seriously annoy the Minotaur. He leaned forwards, snorting, but mustache-guy pushed him back in his chair. From his seat, the Minotaur snapped at Erin.
“Those creatures are scum. They should be exterminated.”
Erin’s brows snapped together. The other Horns of Hammerad groaned, and the Elf kicked backwards, hitting the Minotaur’s shin. All that happened was that she winced.
Mustache-guy smoothed his mustaches and looked concerned. He spoke to Erin, attempting a charming smile.
“I assure you, Mistress, um, Erin. This was all a mistake. If we’d seen the sign, we wouldn’t have attacked.”
“Hm.”
Erin eyed the adventurers. She still wasn’t happy, not least because they were in her way while she was still thinking about Pawn. She made up her mind rapidly.
“Look, you didn’t kill the Goblins. So I guess I’ll forget that. But if you stay here, you will either obey my rules or you can sleep outside. Got it?”
All of the Horns of Hammerad nodded at once. Only the Minotaur did not. Erin stared at him.
“How about you, bull-guy?”
His eyebrow twitched, and everyone else in the inn winced. The Minotaur stared at Erin hard, but she didn’t look away.
“Everyone else seems like they’ll be okay, but are you going to obey my rules, or do I have to kick you out?”
The thought of her kicking the Minotaur out was ridiculous, but Erin was too angry to care. The Minotaur stared hard at her, blew out air exasperatedly, and finally nudged the Elf-girl aside as she silently kicked him under the table.
“Upon my honor, I promise. I will not attack any of your guests unless provoked.”
That seemed like it was all Erin was going to get. She nodded.
“Okay, then. In that case, I have a few rooms upstairs. Enough for all of you. But I don’t have any pillows.”
The Horns of Hammerad smiled in relief. The Elf spoke to Erin.
“That’s fine. We can make do.”
Erin nodded and stood up. Her mind was blank. What were you supposed to say at times like this? Guests. She had guests. She picked a direction and put her mouth on autopilot.
“Your rooms are upstairs. Go ahead and pick whatever one you want. We might have to get two beds for cow-guy, but it should be fine.”
She pointed at the kitchen.
“Breakfast is in the morning. There’s no alcohol, but I’ve got plenty of food. There’s an outhouse outside—just be careful that you don’t walk into a monster. If you see a huge moving rock, shut the door and stay quiet. Don’t go into the kitchen if you want something to eat—there are jars of acid lying around. Don’t drink anything green in general. No killing Goblins, the skeleton works for me, and if you see an ant-guy with two swords and two daggers, hit him and make sure he doesn’t go anywhere. Got it?”
The Horns of Hammerad hesitated, then nodded. Erin waited and then shrugged.
“That’s about it. I’ll make some food if you want anything.”
She stomped out of the common room and into the kitchen. Bemused, the adventurers watched her go. For a few seconds, they heard her talking to the skeleton, and then Erin walked back out. She pointed at the adventurers.
“One more thing. Do any of you play chess?”
Again, all of the adventurers had to exchange glances of confusion. At last, the mustached man looked back at Erin and raised one eyebrow.
“What’s ‘chess’?”
Erin sighed.
Hollowstone Deceivers (Rock Crabs) by Enuryn
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T07:28:04)
Rock crabs kinda cute. Not like coconut crabs. ew.
…typos here!
Takusaka (2023-10-05T08:34:12)
Rereading these really makes you appreciate how crazy Erin was from the beginning.
yagoldt (2024-01-13T02:01:53)
“Hey if you see an antinium that looks like Klbkch, it’s not him”
“Ok”
Later:
“OMG KLBKCH”
I cannot.
Daniel (2024-02-20T14:57:39)
Thats my girl
Nicnom (2024-03-18T10:17:20)
On the other hand, Relc just said he looked familiar.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-13T13:49:27)
I love Bossy Erin, She seems so in her element when she goes full on grumpy innkeeper.
Ronan (2025-01-07T05:50:23)
Not a typo, but what I’m thinking is a continuality error. Wasn’t Pawn meant to be better than her at chess, or at least a challenge because he used the other workers thinking power too? So why is she never losing?
Lurch (2025-01-11T23:06:44)
“Breakfast is in the morning. There’s no alcohol, but I’ve got plenty of food. There’s an outhouse outside—just be careful that you don’t walk into a monster. If you see a huge moving rock, shut the door and stay quiet. Don’t go into the kitchen if you want something to eat—there are jars of acid lying around. Don’t drink anything green in general. No killing Goblins, the skeleton works for me, and if you see an ant-guy with two swords and two daggers, hit him and make sure he doesn’t go anywhere. Got it?”
Welcome to the Wandering Inn. It’s a weird place…
Abianko (2025-02-08T13:53:38)
Fantastic! It’s been very satrisfying to see The Horns of Hammerad finally meet Erin, and as her first guests!
For a few weeks I have been completely absorbed by this incredible story.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.50
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-50/

Erin dreamt of swords flashing, of cannonballs exploding around her, and of blood. Rivers of blood.
Klbkch stood in front of Erin and asked if she were ready. She looked at him as he bled in her arms. His mandibles opened, and he rasped into her ear.
“I obey my Queen.”
She shook her head. Dream Erin pointed and showed Klbkch a massive chess piece sitting on a hill.
“The King. It’s about the King. The king is smart. He—”
She was no longer holding Klbkch. Instead, Erin sat and watched as a body fell to the ground and oil burned around her. A dead Goblin’s face stared at her, and she woke in a cold sweat to see Toren standing in one corner of her room.
It was better. Infinitely better than seeing the dead. Erin still threw her pillow at him. It struck him in the face—not hard, but loud enough to startle someone.
“Whu?”
It came from outside the kitchen. Erin was immediately seized by panic. She looked around for her frying pan and then remembered.
She had guests.
Blearily, Erin kicked her bedding into one corner of the kitchen and walked out. It was still close to dawn, but surprisingly, someone was awake.
Ceria blinked several times at Erin and nodded her head. It seemed the Elf mage was an early riser, but even she was half-asleep.
“Whu?”
She repeated the word. Erin swayed on her feet.
“Hrgh.”
“Mm.”
Conversation done, Erin stumbled back into the kitchen to make food. Toren stood by, handing her pan, spatulas, and various food items as she pointed and grunted. Breakfast was scrambled eggs, toasted bread, bacon from some animal, and sliced cheese.
It was unnatural how she could make a proper breakfast, but Erin wasn’t thinking about that at the moment. Her hands moved automatically as she thought about her dream.
It had meant something. And for some reason, even though Erin had been dreaming about death and battle, she’d been thinking about chess. Shealways thought about chess, even when she was asleep.
Still caught in the last fragments of her dream, Erin muttered the words.
“The king…the king is smart. He uses something. His head?”
Erin scratched at her own head, wondering where that line had come from. Well, obviously it was about chess. But had she heard it somewhere? She felt like it was important.
The bacon was finished and sizzling. Erin picked the fried strips of meat out of the pan, wincing at the spot of oil that landed on her arm.
“Ow. Ow.Ow!”
Too much oil. Erin had forgotten. It really gothot when you heated it up—
The smell of burning flesh. Erin paused and looked around. A dead Goblin Chieftain lay on the floor.
The slice of bacon slipped from her tongs. Nimbly, Toren dove and caught the bit of meat and delicately put it back on the plate. Erin blinked and came back to life.
“Oh—thanks.”
She put a hand to her head and quickly finished frying and stacking the rest of the meat. She’d made a lot. Enough for a small army, which was what she assumed ten adventurers and a Minotaur qualified as.
But since they weren’t awake, after Erin finished with the eggs, she only made one plate for Ceria. She absentmindedly dumped bacon, eggs, and bread together, ignoring the aesthetics of eating for the substance of eating itself.
Why was she thinking of the Goblin Chieftain? Why had she had that dream? Sometimes, yes, Erin woke up sweating and crying in the middle of the night. But never had her dreams followed her out of her sleep like this.
It was a sign. A sign that Erin needed to find a better place to sleep, perhaps.
Her stomach rumbled. Another sign, indicating she was hungry. Erin stared down at the two plates that were as close to an American breakfast as she knew and smiled. Ceria probably would like this, especially with blue juice. Too late, Erin remembered she had an Elf in the other room.
“Oh no.”
Erin stared down at her meal of bacon and scrambled eggs. She couldn’t go out with this. Desperately, she scrambled around, looking for anything that remotely resembled produce. It was sohard to keep vegetables in the inn because she didn’t have a refrigerator!
She found a head of lettuce and some tomatoes. Feverishly, Erin fried more eggs and added it to some toasted bread. That would have to do. Hopefully, Ceria ate eggs. Were Elves vegetarian or vegan?
——
Ceria stared blearily at the table, trying not to fall asleep. She wasn’t a morning person. People expected half-Elves to rise with the dawn and frolic in the dewdrops and flowers or some such nonsense. But Ceria had lived too long among Humans and other species to like getting up early, and she didn’t frolic.
An enticing smell was coming from the kitchens along with much banging about. Ceria tried not to listen. She was concentrating on a spell.
“[Illumination]. No—perhaps I’m doing it wrong?”
She should have the spell mastered, but it was giving her trouble. [Illumination] was an advanced version of the [Light] spell Ryoka had learned, and technically, it was only Tier 2 magic. But in truth, its complexity was around Tier 3. Possibly even Tier 4 in scope. Normally, Ceria wouldn’t have bothered learning it, but the spell could illuminate over a hundred meters around the caster by shedding orbs of light. It was perfect for dungeons.
“And of course, it’s up to the Wistram mage to do it. Is it a hard spell? Yes! Then let the half-Elf do it! Don’t get any of the other mages. Ceria’s got it covered!”
Ceria growled and slapped the spellbook in front of her shut. She was hungry, and now that she smelled breakfast, she really couldn’t concentrate.
Right on time, someone exited the kitchen holding two big plates full of food. Ceria brightened—
And nearly blew the skeleton’s head off when she saw it. The undead creature paused and stared at Ceria’s wand as the mage caught herself. It had one arm cocked to throw the plate at her head.
“Toren! Stop that!”
Someone smacked the skeleton in the back of the head, making it stumble and nearly drop its burden. Ceria saw the strange [Innkeeper] glare at the skeleton and point at the table where she sat.
Quickly, Ceria lowered the glowing wand as Erin approached.
“Ooh, is that awand?”
The half-Elf blinked at Erin. She paused and then smiled ruefully.
“Yes it is. Would you like to see?”
Erin peered excitedly at the long, slender piece of wood. It didn’t look carved like the ones she’d seen in certain movies. Rather, it looked like it had been plucked off a tree and stripped of all branches. The wood was a pale white tinged with the faintest hint of green. All in all, it was ordinary except for the pale, blue-white wisps of light flickering around the tip.
“That is socool!”
Ceria was mildly taken aback by Erin’s enthusiasm. She held out the wand to Erin, much to the other girl’s surprise.
Erin hesitated, her hands itching to hold the wand. She glanced at Ceria.
“Is it really okay if I touch it?”
Ceria had to smile.
“It’s not that fragile. Go ahead. And it’s not that expensive. Sort of expensive, but the real thing is far, uh, ‘cooler’.”
Reverently, Erin ran her fingers along the wand. It didn’t feel that different, to Erin’s slight disappointment. The wood was smooth and polished, but it didn’t feelspecial. Her fingertips touched the wand’s tip.
“Ah! Cold!”
Ceria snatched the wand back, and Erin stared at her hands. The fingers that had brushed the wand tip were white, and frost had coated the very tips. The Elf tossed the wand on the table and grabbed Erin’s hand.
“Are you alright?”
Behind Erin, Toren’s glowing eyes flashed menacingly. The skeleton took a step forwards and met an elbow to the ribcage from Erin. She glared at him until he retreated and then looked back at Ceria. The touch of the Elf’s skin on hers felt very light and ethereal, just like how the rest of the Elf looked. Gingerly, she pulled her hand away.
“I’m fine. Go away, Toren! Go get us something to drink.”
“I’m really sorry about that. I didn’t expect you to touch the wand tip. Have you never seen one before?”
Erin blew on her fingers and rubbed them frantically to warm them up. They were tingling horribly, but aside from the first bite of extreme cold, they seemed to be okay.
“No—sorry. I didn’t know I wasn’t supposed to touch them.”
“It was my fault. I forget how much non-mages don’t know.”
Ceria looked abashed. She held up the wand and tapped her finger close to the tip.
“All the magic of the wand is channeled through the tip. That’s why it glows or reacts depending on the spell stored. It’s also why you shouldnever break a wand because it will trigger the spell.”
She picked up her wand and began tucking it up her sleeve. Erin saw there was an armband so that Ceria could holster the wand along her arm. She shuddered.
“Won’t that freeze your arm?”
“Oh, no. I can deactivate the magic. I only activated it because, well—your skeleton surprised me.”
Erin turned and glared at Toren, who’d reemerged from the kitchen with a jug in one hand and cups in the other.
“Sorry about that. He keeps doing that no matter how much I tell him not to.”
Silently, Ceria watched the skeleton place a cup before her and Erin and fill both up to the brim. Quite literally to the brim.
“Toren! How are we supposed to drink it like that? Don’t fill the cups all the way to the top, just almost!”
The skeleton looked abashed. Erin glared at it and then turned to Ceria. The half-Elf cautiously managed to take a drink of the sweet, pulpy liquid without spilling any. Her eyebrows lifted.
“This is good!”
“I know, right? It’s from this fruit I found around here. Anyways, here. Breakfast is served!”
So saying, Erin pushed a plate towards Ceria. The half-Elf looked down and found herself staring at scrambled eggs, toasted bread, and a spreadable cheese on the side—and for some reason, a big bowl of what looked entirely like lettuce and tomatoes. And no bacon.
She looked over and saw Erin had a plate full of eggs and bacon. Ceria’s stomach rumbled, and she wondered how she was going to correct this mistake.
“Well. This looks…lovely. Thank you for making breakfast so early, Miss Solstice. And I’m late in saying it, but good morning.”
“Oh. Thank you!”
Erin paused and then snapped her fingers.
“Oh. Wait! I know this one!”
Bemused, Ceria stared as the other girl scratched at her head. She muttered to herself and then looked at Ceria.
“Um…Elen síla lúmenn’ omentielvo? Is that right?”
The half-Elf froze, mouth open with one spoonful of eggs hovering just over her plate. Erin blinked innocently at her.
“What—what was that?”
Erin blushed.
“I was trying to say good morning in your language. Or maybe it’s just hello. Did I get it right…?”
“My language?”
“Elvish, right?”
The bit of egg slipped from Ceria’s spoon back onto her plate. Erin was getting more embarrassed by the staring, so she tried to explain.
“I once went to a Lord of the Rings chess tournament because I heard a national champion played there. People wouldn’t play me unless I could at least say ‘hello’.”
Ceria understood exactly none of what Erin had said. Her mind spinning, she put down her spoon quite calmly.
“Miss Erin, I’m not sure what you might be thinking but—I’m not an Elf.”
This time, it was Erin’s turn to stare.
“You’re not? Oh man. I just thought—”
Ceria touched the pointed tips of her ears that Erin was staring at.
“I’m not an Elf. I’m a half-Elf. And besides which, you wouldn’t see—an Elf anywhere.”
“Really? Why not?”
Erin was full of round-eyed curiosity. Mindful of her sleeping friends upstairs and because Erin seemed genuinely confused, Ceria did her best to keep her voice level and not shout.
“No one has seen an Elf for thousands of years. Tens of thousands. They all died long ago. That bit you spoke—was a joke, right?”
“Oh. Um—yes?”
Ceria watched as Erin sat back in her chair, disappointment clearly written all over her face. The conversation stalled as both young women tried to wrestle with what had been heard.
For her part, the half-Elf had to believe that bit of nonsense-language was a joke. Because if it wasn’t…
Ceria felt—amazed at Erin’s ignorance, but the nature of their conversation was familiar. She’d had the same sort of odd explaining to do, but when—?
“Well, I’m, uh, really sorry about the mix up. I just thought you looked so amazing and, um—are half-Elves like Elves? Or—or is there anything I should know?”
Awkwardly, Erin pointed at Ceria’s plate.
“I didn’t know what you people—I mean, what you could eat. If you need something special, I can get it. Anyways, we’ve got salad. Um…there are some tomato-like things I bought from the market, carrots…lots of soup. And, uh, I’ve got bread and cheese if you want to eat that.”
Ceria raised both her eyebrows in amusement.
“I can eat meat, you know.”
Again, the Human girl paused and seemed to struggle with something. Then, silently, she switched her plate with Ceria’s. The [Mage] brightened as the aroma of fried meat drifted upwards.
“So you eat meat?”
Ceria nodded happily.
“I’m not sure what you’ve heard, but my people aren’t averse to eating meat. I quite enjoy pork, for instance, especially when it’s been properly cooked. Or when it’s not.”
Erin stared at Ceria, round-eyed.
“Really? That’s soweird.”
——
When the rest of the Horns of Hammerad finally woke up, it was because they smelled the food. Adventurers, being the sort of people who were used to waking in a moment’s notice to avoid dying, generally slept in if they could help it. But they were also big fans of eating, so when the smells of cooked food finally wafted upstairs, their stomachs dragged them out of bed.
Gerial stumbled down into the common room of the inn and brightened the instant he saw what Ceria was eating. He sat down at a table, wondering if he should call for a barmaid, when he saw the skeleton march out of the kitchen.
Ceria caught the vice-captain of the Horns of Hammerad as he went for his belt dagger.
“Easy. Don’t threaten it and it won’t attack.”
Gerial paused and nodded. He let his heartbeat slow from the sudden jolt he’d received and warily let the skeleton put a heaping plate of food in front of him. The skeleton set down a cup, pointed to a jug of blue liquid on Ceria’s table, and walked back into the kitchen. Sheepishly, Gerial met Ceria’s gaze.
“Good thing you caught me. I’d forgotten—”
“Don’t worry about it. I made the same mistake earlier.”
“Good morning!”
Gerial looked up and gave Erin a smile as she bustled towards him, silverware in hand. The skeletal waiter had forgotten it, and Erin also filled up Gerial’s glass with the strange blue liquid after giving him a choice between it and water.
“Thank you for the meal, ah, Miss…”
Ceria supplied the name.
“Solstice.”
“Oh, just call me Erin. Anyways, I’ve got more food, so just shout if you need some.”
“You’re most kind. And this looks delicious.”
Erin smiled and walked off, already chatting to Sostrom and the [Ranger], Marian, from the Horns of Hammerad. Gerial eyed his plate, delighted at the glistening oil on his fat strips of bacon and the mounds of eggs and pieces of bread buried next to them.
He took his first bite and grinned at Ceria.
“Good food.”
She was already eating again.
“Isn’t it? Try the blue stuff.”
Cautiously, mindful of Ceria’s sense of humor, Gerial did. His eyes widened.
“It’ssweet!”
Ceria and the other Horns of Hammerad grinned at Gerial’s reaction. He’d already drained his cup by the time Erin came back around.
“Good service, food, and we’re not getting dirty looks every two seconds. We struck it lucky coming here.”
“Good thing we didn’t get into it with those Goblins.”
Ceria nodded as Gerial removed some grease from his chin with a handkerchief.
“Still—”
Gerial craned his neck and saw only the skeleton walking around offering drinks to adventurers reluctant to accept. Reassured, he continued speaking to Ceria. Neither adventurer noticed how often Toren kept passing by their table despite their full glasses.
“What an odd innkeeper.”
“She’s definitely strange. Goblinsand a skeleton. But Pisces is probably to blame for the skeleton. Still—Goblins.”
“Did you see what one of them was armed with? A…a jar of something?”
Ceria smiled with dark humor.
“It set off my [Dangersense] when it pulled it out. Guess what was in it?Acid. I had a look in the kitchen. She’s got jars of Acid Flies—a local creature around here. Looks like she’s been harvesting them as a food source.”
Gerial paused as he munched down on his bread, appetite suddenly lost. Ceria shook her head at him.
“Oh, stop being squeamish. Drakes eat them, and so do the Antinium, I bet. Not that we’d see the ant-men here, but I can see how it would be useful.”
“But the bugs—”
Gerial eyed his plate uneasily, imagining how an insect might crawl into a cooked meal. Ceria glared at him.
“Do you think she’d leave any of them alive? They were all dead. Honestly, you Humans—”
She trailed off and shook her head.
“Well, I get it. Bugs aren’t my favorite thing to eat either.”
That comment nearly made Gerial choke on his drink. But Ceria continued, thinking aloud.
“I’m not sure if she’s just absentminded or if she doesn’t realize how dangerous arming Goblins is. That acid can melt skin in seconds. But besides that, it’s odd to see her living so far out from the city.”
“Not too far. It was barely an hour’s walk even with us getting lost.”
“True. But monsters don’t care about distance. And that skeleton doesn’t lookthat powerful.”
Gerial nodded. The skeleton didn’t set off any internal alarm bells when he thought of it as a potential foe. It was dangerous and no mistake—but it was no Lich or even a stronger variety of the undead.
“Maybe that’s all the protection she could afford.”
“In that case, she’s reckless or insane. Or—poor. Actually, She reminds me a bit of Ryoka.”
Gerial stared incredulously at Erin as she began haranguing Toren.
“In what way exactly?”
Ceria shrugged, unable to explain.
“They’re not too similar personality-wise, but…it’s just a hunch.”
“Well. So long as we’re here, monsters aren’t an issue. And thisis a good inn.”
“Right. If we want to keep using it, we’d better spread the word to the others. If they come in and start something—”
“Got it. I’ll tell the others when I see them. You still working on the spell…?”
Ceria made a face.
“Working on it. It’s complex. Give me two days and I’ll have it done. We probably have enough time for that, right?”
“Probably. Calruz and the others will meet to discuss tonight, but we’ll need to interview other adventurers and see what’s been found. You’ve got at least four days by my count.”
“Okay then—”
Every adventurer looked up at the heavyclomping sound of massive footsteps coming down the stairs. Calruz blinked a few times and scowled at the skeleton as he entered the common room.
“Hey there!”
Erin was already setting the table next to Ceria and Gerial with a huge plate of food. Calruz grunted in appreciation and sat down.
This meal was mainly eggs and bread…and a bowl of lettuce and tomatoes for some reason. Gerial frowned as he saw there was absolutely no meat whatsoever on the plate as Ceria slapped her forehead gently.
“Hey, Mr. Bull Guy.”
Across the room, Gerial saw Sostrom choke on his drink as Erin addressed Calruz. The Minotaur frowned up at her as the Human girl smiled at him. Even sitting down, the Minotaur was nearly as tall as she was.
“I wasn’t sure if you ate meat. I’ve got some bacon. Made from pork—I think, so there’s no beef.”
“I can eat beef.”
Calruz grunted at Erin. She smiled in relief and waved at Toren. The skeleton approached with another huge plate of sizzling bacon. The Minotaur accepted it from Erin’s hand and grunted with satisfaction. Then he eyed her again.
“Also, Innkeeper. My name is Calruz, and I lead the Horns of Hammerad. Any title is fine, but—‘Bull Guy’—I would prefer you not call me that.”
Erin slapped a hand to her forehead.
“Oh no. Is it a racial thing? I’m sorry! I didn’t want to use your people’s word. What should I say instead?”
Calruz’s left eyelid twitched involuntarily. He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. Ceria and Gerial held their breaths.
“We’re not bulls. Orcattle.”
“Whatare you, then?”
This time, Calruz eyed Erin long and hard to see if she was joking. But she seemed completely earnest.
“A Minotaur.”
“Wow. I thought you were, but you look a lot different than the pictures.”
“What did you think I looked like, then?”
Erin waved her hands and gestured helplessly.
“Oh, I don’t know. Less—hairy. Sort of like a Human with a Minotaur’s head. And your horns are really cool.”
She pointed to Calruz’s long horns, and this time, Gerial thought the Minotaur would erupt. But he seemed mollified by Erin’s amazement.
“I don’t know what kind of Minotaurs you’ve heard of. But I accept your mistake.”
He began eating, considerably faster than Gerial and Ceria but with his utensils and without creating a mess. Erin paused, clearly thinking of something else. Reluctantly, Calruz looked up.
“What?”
“Um. Do you like mazes?”
——
Erin learned a lot about Minotaurs on that day. They were pretty polite, good eaters, could actually eat beef if they wanted to—but they weren’t fans of lots of questions.
She watched the Horns of Hammerad leave the inn and troop towards the city and stared at what they’d left behind. Money, of course—they’d paid in advance and handsomely too, and that was only for the first night. And they were coming back for dinner, but it was the other thing that they’d left which was bothering her.
Dishes. Lots of dishes.
Erin stared at the stacks of dirty silverware and porcelain and pointed at Toren.
“You wash that.”
The skeleton nodded—almost glumly, Erin thought. It hauled the bucket of water up and poured it into a pot to heat up over the fire while Erin opened her pantries, dreading what she might find.
Two minutes later, Erin rushed out of the inn.
“I’m out offood!”
She paused, ran back inside to grab her money pouch, and then ran out again. Toren rushed out behind her.
“Stay there! Wash the dishes!”
He halted, clattering his jaw as Erin raced down the hill.
——
“Okay, make thatten sausages, and I need a bag of salt, too. Oh, and some cooking oil.”
Krshia nodded and shouted something in her growling language to another Gnoll across the street. Both shopkeepers disappeared and began pulling out the various foodstuffs Erin had requested.
It was easier to go to Krshia for everything she wanted, Erin had found. The other Gnoll could direct her to the right shopkeepers, and that way, Erin knew she was never being ripped off.
“Is there anything else, Erin Solstice?”
“Um…”
Erin looked around. Market Street was still half-destroyed, but the part that hadn’t been burnt down had already resumed business as usual. And indeed, a large part of the burnt street had already been replaced by the industrious Workers. Shopkeepers had already set up their stalls, and if you ignored the black soot on some buildings and the ground, it looked like everything was normal.
The only difference was the Guardsman walking down the street every few minutes and the unfriendly looks that were being directed at every Human who entered. Erin got her fair share of glares, but it seemed like the shopkeepers knew her face, so at least they didn’t mutter insults when she walked by. At least, none that she could hear at any rate.
“I don’t know. What would you recommend, Krshia?”
The Gnoll propped her hands on her hips and thought.
“Hm. These are adventurers staying at your inn, yes? Then buy ale or something to drink, yes?”
“Ale? Oh, right! Sure! Give me a, uh, barrel of that.”
Krshia smiled but shook her head.
“It should be a keg for now. Transporting a barrel is hard, yes? And my Runner—he is overworked. He will not be able to transport your goods until tomorrow, even without a barrel to drive, yes?”
“What? Tomorrow?”
Erin’s face fell. She’d gotten used to the unfriendly, silent Gnoll who drove a cart to her inn every time she needed a delivery. True, it wasn’t ‘running’, but Krshia told her Street Runners often used carts to carry heavy deliveries, unlike City Runners. Whatever that meant.
“Can’t you get it to me sooner? I’m out of food at the inn!”
Another shake and Erin had to step back to avoid the flying brown fur.
“My apologies. But it is a busy time, yes? So many customers, which is good. But not for you, yes? I can lend you a cart, but that is all.”
Disconsolately, Erin stared at the small mountain of goods she’d bought. Krshia had marked it and set it aside for the Runner to pick up. It was—well, it was alot. She’d bought it thinking she wouldn’t have to carry it. But since she did, suddenly Erin regretted her spending.
Briefly, she wondered if she could get away with only taking a little bit. But the adventurers ate somuch, and they were her first real guests. She didn’t want to disappoint them, but the sun was already high in the sky, and she needed to make lunch soon.
There was no helping it. Taking Toren into the city was more trouble than it was worth. If she wanted to get it back, she’d have to make several trips with a handcart between feeding her guests. Erin sighed.
But then she brightened. Moving through the crowd, she spotted a group of people who were out of place. At least, out of place for what she considered to be Liscor’s unusual crowd. She spotted a woman in silver armor, a huge guy with an axe, and several other Humans walking with a tall Minotaur she recognized.
Erin raised her hand and waved.
“Hey!Hey! Hammer captain!”
——
“Why are we doing this again?”
Gregor, Captain of the Silver-rank team of adventurers known as Kyrial’s Vanguard, complained as he finally reached the top of the small hill where The Wandering Inn stood. He was wearing his armor, of course, and his iconic battleaxe as well, but the big man had another burden.
A sack of onions and five freshly baked loaves of bread, to be precise. And a narked expression, but that didn’t weigh anything.
“We’re here because we want to use this inn for planning and the innkeeper needs food. And because helping out is the polite thing to do.”
Yvlon smiled at Gregor and winked silently at Erin as she carried along two hams.
“Exactly. And it’s notthat heavy.”
Gerial had to wheeze that last comment. He’d been carrying a bag of flour by himself and was regretting it, especially with the weight of the rest of his armor.
Calruz grunted irritably. He dropped the bags of flour he’d carried pointedly into Toren’s arms as the skeleton emerged from the inn. The skeleton staggered under the weight as it carried them into the kitchen.
“This was not warrior’s work.”
“No, but it was necessary, and I appreciate it.”
Erin grinned at Calruz as she hauled a smaller bag into the kitchen. She poked her head out.
“Besides, if you didn’t help out, I wouldn’t be able to make lunch! This way, you can eat and complain at the same time, Mr. Grumpy!”
Ceria smiled and dropped the links of sausage on the table.
“Touché. She’s got you there, Calruz.”
Yvlon and the other adventuring captains dropped their burdens on tables and looked around the inn. Cervial whistled appreciatively.
“And you lot have this entire inn to yourself? We’ve barely standing room in our inn, and we’re sleeping three people to a room. Mind sharing?”
Gerial laughed as he massaged his shoulder.
“Talk with the innkeeper, but we’ve occupied most of the second floor.”
“And we’re not giving up our rooms!”
That came from Ceria. The half-Elf sighed as she sat back in a chair and accepted a glass of water from the skeleton. She’d gotten used to the undead creature, but the eyes of the other captains followed Toren as he walked back into the kitchen.
“You told us, but I didn’t believe—”
The Mage-Captain, Menes, was the least-surprised.
“It’s notthat uncommon. Other nations use the undead, although I’ve never heard of one serving drinks. What do you think, Byres?”
Everyone turned to the one person who’d be most unhappy about the skeletons—but Yvlon Byres exhaled slowly. She tossed her hair behind her and smiled in thanks as Erin handed her a cup. Then Yvlon looked at the other captains as they too were given refreshments and a promise of lunch for their hard work.
“I think…I’d rather have somewhere to sit and plan than cause a fuss and have to squeeze into a corner of the inn. Let’s drop it.”
She eyed the skeleton, but everyone else agreed to that, thinking of their lovely accommodations. Gerial rubbed his hands together with a big smile as he saw the sausage links being ported into the kitchen. He looked around good-naturedly, and everyone else relaxed as the first blue fruit drinks came out with the water.
“Well, we’re here a bit sooner than I thought, but shall we begin planning?”
——
Time didn’t seem to be on Erin’s side. Well, it was passing by, but far too quickly for her liking.
It seemed like she’d just woken up, made breakfast, and bought some food before it was lunchtime. And then she’d made lunch, cleaned up, and suddenly it wasdinnertime.
But that was the thing about catering to a crowd; it took a long time, and Erin had to keep making food in preparation for people eating food. So although the night came quickly, she was quite, quite conscious that she’d worked through the day to get to it.
Erin stopped to wipe a layer of sweat from her forehead and wince because she’d smeared tomato sauce all over her brow. Oh well, it wasn’t as if her face had been that pristine to begin with. And she was too busy to wash it away.
She glanced out at the clouded night sky and wondered if it were time to shut the window in the kitchen. She’d undone the shutters here to cool down the stiflingly hot kitchen, but it looked like rain, and the last thing she needed was a wet kitchen floor.
The nights were getting colder. Already, Erin had taken to closing all the windows by the evening, and tonight was especially chilly. Dark storm clouds had swallowed the sun hours ago and promised to drop their cargo sometime tonight.
“Winter is coming.”
Toren paused and cocked his head at her. He probably hadn’t heard what Erin had said. She waved her hand at him, and he exited the kitchen.
She was done with her plate of spaghetti. Well—plates. Erin lifted one in each hand carefully—she could do more, but it was heavy porcelain, and she didn’t feel that rushed—and walked out into the common room.
A wave of noise greeted her. Adventurers sat around her room, talking, laughing, arguing. It was such a bizarre sight in her inn that Erin had to pause. But she was on a mission and the food was heavy, so she made her way to the two tables that had been pushed together in the center of the room.
“What do youmean, wait?”
Calruz slammed one fist down on the table, making Erin nearly jump. He was shouting at a bunch of men and one woman—all adventurers, allegedly. They’d come into the inn around lunchtime with a few of their friends and had stayed around, talking.
Well, mainly arguing. Ceria and Gerial sat next to Calruz, wincing as the Minotaur expressed his discontent. Each of the other adventuring captains also had a vice-captain with them.
“We’re not ready to go in, Calruz. We need supplies. We thought we could get them here, but prices are high and supply is low. Besides that, we need to send some scouting teams in. And there are other adventurers to consider letting join—”
“Weknow what’s in there. And the Ruins are less than an hour’s journey from the city! We don’t need supplies or scouts!”
“We agreed to come Calruz, but that doesn’t mean we put ourselves under your command. We’re all equals here, and we go in properly or we don’t go in at all.”
That came from Menes, the only other mage at the table besides Ceria. He smiled and thanked Erin as she put his food in front of him. Then he returned his attention to Calruz.
“There are some Silver-rank adventurers in the city. Some good ones that I know. It wouldn’t hurt to have them with us, and as Cervial said, we need time. A day or two of delay won’t lose us any time. Myself, I’m more concerned about our formations. Ceria has said she can learn the [Illumination] spell in time, but even if we get that cast, how will we approach the actual exploration phase? I’m not too keen on splitting up our vanguard—”
Gregor shifted. He’d been busy chomping down on slices of ham, but he stopped to glare at Menes.
“You can’t be suggesting we keep our forces together. The time it would take—”
Erin stopped listening. She was busy, and the adventurers had been arguingall day. That was preferable to them having, say, a bar fight, but she was busy.
She spun past her inn, taking requests for food, filling empty mugs, and generally wishing she was less busy. The door opened, and Erin turned to smile at the newcomer and explain that skeletons and Goblins in general were friendly.
She didn’t have to. Pisces stood in the doorway, blinking in surprise at the crowded inn. He paused, looking around as if he thought he were in the wrong place. Erin waved at him.
“Sit over there!”
She pointed to a lonely table. Pisces hesitated, still eying the adventurers, but eventually went and sat down. He paused as he passed by the table where adventuring captains were sitting. They looked up, and Ceria spoke.
“Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] nodded to her. The two locked gazes like cat and dog. No…that wasn’t fair. They tensed up, and Erin had only seen that look of hostility and regret on Pisces’ face once when he thought she was selling him out to the Watch. On Ceria’s face? Pained regret and her own unspoken anger.
He nodded slowly, face pale.
“Ceria.”
They seemed unable to say more than that. So—almost accidentally, someone ran into Pisces, and he started.
“Hey, Pisces! Stop bothering my customers!”
Erin booted the mage in the back, much to the amusement of several of the adventurers. Pisces glared at her and glared harder when Toren came by to hand him a menu.
“I must protest! My creation is not meant for menial tasks. Moreover, I am an accredited [Mage] and deserve to be treated—”
“Food!”
Erin dropped a plate in front of Pisces and left. She was sobusy! If this was what having an inn was like, she seriously needed another skeleton. Or two. Toren was practically dashing about, serving the wary adventurers with mechanical precision.
This was why an inn had a cook and bar-people. Come to that, a bartender would also have been helpful, as well as another keg of ale. Erin had long ago run out, and the adventurers had been disappointed to learn she didn’t have any more. She probably could have made a fortune on that alone.
The door opened. Erin turned, prepared a smile, and then smiled for real.
“Olesm?”
The blue Drake staggered into her inn, looking around wildly. He spotted her and rushed towards Erin, heedless of the other adventurers who’d gone temporarily silent at the sight of a Drake.
“Erin! I did it! Idid it!”
“Did what?”
“I finally solved it!”
The Drake crowed and danced about, waving the slip of parchment at Erin. She blinked at him, confused.
“It was the work of days—no, nearly aweek! In the end, I had to lock myself away, but I did it! And I leveled! Twice!”
“Wait, twice? What?”
She had to get him to stand still to show her, which was no mean feat. Erin saw a very inky piece of paper and the notation for four chess moves. A solution to a chess puzzle. Her puzzle.
“Oh, you did it! Congratulations!”
She smiled at Olesm, and he gave her a toothy grin in reply. He looked delirious with delight, but his eyes were also slightly unfocused, hinting that he was delirious in more ways than one.
Drakes didn’t have whites in their eyes. Like the Gnolls, their eyes were a single color with a dark, snake-like pupil in the center. Olesm’s eyes were a marvelous shade of blue patterned wildly like raindrops falling.
They were also bloodshot and wild. Erin noticed Olesm seemed gaunt and thinner than she’d seen him last. He also had an unwashed smell and…was that dead skin on the side of his neck? No—deadscales. They were flaking off, and it looked like a terrible fungus infection the more Erin stared at it.
She was trying not to, really. But it was extremely distracting.
Olesm noticed where Erin was looking and blushed. He immediately covered the spot with one hand.
“Um—I’mso sorry. I haven’t bathed or cleaned myself in a while. I was just so happy to have solved it I rushed over. But I did it at last! It was the greatest challenge I’ve had, and the rewards were—rewarding!”
He smiled in a state approaching bliss. Erin had to smile with him as she led him to an empty table and waved at Toren for a drink.
“It took a week, huh?”
“Just a bit less than that, I believe.”
Gratefully, Olesm accepted the mug and then stared in horror at the creature that had served it to him. Meanwhile, Erin was trying to remember. She’d given him a chess problem? Oh! Oh yes, it was the one she’d sent to the mystery chess game enthusiast. Olesm had said he was going to make a copy.
And it had taken him a week? Erin was…impressed.
Shewas impressed. It had taken her nearly a week to solve the problem as well. Admittedly, she’d been going to class and only spent a few hours here and there trying to solve it. And she’d been in middle school. But still.
It made a difference that Olesm had never learned any of the basic strategies that Erin had built her knowledge of chess on. That was part of the reason she could still wipe the floor with him and anyone else, although Olesm was probably the best. And it explained why she hadn’t seen him. She’d actuallyforgotten about him—
“Erin.Erin!”
Olesm was pulling at Erin’s hand. She snapped out of her thoughts and saw the Drake’s blue scales had turned pale.
“What is it?”
“There’s a sk-skeleton!”
He pointed, and his claw shook at Toren as the skeleton brought another plate of food out for Calruz. Erin stared blankly at Toren.
“Yeah. That’s Toren.”
“Toren? It has a—what’s a skeleton doinghere? Did that [Necromancer] summon it?”
Erin realized that Olesm hadn’t seen Toren before. She tried to explain. Olesm tried to listen. It was quite noisy in the common room.
“What? And youaccepted it? But the undead—they’re so—dangerous! Besides, one skeleton isn’t worth all the food you’ve been feeding Pisces!”
Erin’s eyes narrowed, and she tossed a glare over the room at Pisces. He was already trying to avoid Ceria’s gaze as the half-Elf occasionally stared at him, but he flinched away from Erin as well, although he couldn’t possibly have known what she and Olesm were talking about.
“Oh really?”
Olesm nodded. He tore into the food Toren brought for him, clearly famished.
“Their binding spells don’t last that long. Your average skeleton falls to pieces within a day or two of being animated, and even if the necromancer uses an indefinite binding, their spell fails the instant they take too much damage. And they’re surprisingly fragile!”
“Well, this one hasn’t fallen apart, and it’s been knocked to pieces once already.”
Olesm frowned.
“Really? That’s not usual. Most come apart instantly if you do that. This one might be made to reassemble? Most mages don’t spend nearly that much mana on a lowly skeleton.”
“I think this one’s different. It’s smart enough to take orders and serve drinks for one thing.”
The Drake followed Toren’s circuit around the room and nodded slowly.
“True. And that’s odd too. It’s very intelligent—can it play chess, by any chance?”
“What?”
Erin grinned at Olesm and laughed.
“Is that all you think about? You’re like me when I was a kid!”
The Drake blushed and ducked his head. Then he paused and looked around the room.
“I didn’t think you would be so busy—I was hoping to play a game, but I wouldn’t want to take you away from your work. Where is that small Goblin or the Worker called Pawn?”
Erin’s smile faded. She’d nearly forgotten the events of yesterday as well.
“I haven’t seen Rags and her crowd today. They must be doing Goblin-y things. But—the Workers probably won’t be coming for a while. There was an—incident with Pawn.”
Olesm looked alarmed.
“What happened?”
Someone was calling Erin’s name. She glanced around, distracted, and made a face.
“Tell you later! Wait until everything slows down and then we can play a game of chess, okay?”
Reluctantly, Olesm nodded. He brightened as Erin brought him more food, though, and began attacking that. Erin walked over to the waving adventurer, and her endless quest for customer satisfaction continued.
——
Late. Later in the night. Erin was bone-tired, but she was still smiling and still, surprisingly, having fun. The adventurers weren’t jerks, and they liked her cooking. And they had money! It wasn’t bad to be working for once, and Erin wondered just how much money she’d make from tonight.
Not a bad haul. But shewas tired. She paused, wiping at her forehead, and accepted a drink from Toren.
“Hey, good job. You’re not doing so bad.”
The skeleton paused and nodded at her. She blinked in bemusement as it bustled out of the kitchen.
“Skeletons. They think they’re as good as people.”
She laughed and walked back out. At last, the food requests had stopped coming in, and it was just filling glasses and doing the stacks of dirty dishes in the kitchen. Toren could do that. Erin would just fill up a bucket with water from the stream and boil it before she could sit down and play a game of chess with Olesm and maybe Pisces.
She had bucket in hand and was heading to the door when it opened. Two Workers immediately stepped inside. Erin raised a hand to greet them—
And half of the adventurers in the room drew their weapons.
“Whoa! Hey! Swords down!”
Erin shouted as the adventurers began pushing their chairs back and the Workers wavered. She put herself between the adventurers and the doorway.
“These are my guests! Guests!”
“Antinium!”
“The Black Tide!”
Some of the adventurers were shouting, but the adventuring captains were the first to get over their surprise. Gregor grabbed the shoulder of an adventurer that was rising and shoved him down in his seat.
“Don’t fight!”
This came from Cervial. He raised his voice and shouted at the adventurers.
“They’re part of Liscor! You hurt them, you make an enemy out of the city! They’re not here for a fight! These are the Worker-types.”
Erin ignored the shouting as the Captains began restoring order in the inn. She looked at the Workers, confused.
“Why are you here? I thought you couldn’t leave the city.”
Not without Pawn. But then Erin’s mind caught up with what she was saying.
“Pawn?”
“Yes, Innkeeper Solstice. But there is an issue—”
The Worker opened the doorway. Erin saw two other Workers helping another of their kind through the doorway. He was like them, exactly like them, but different.
Pawn.
He was okay. He was alive. Erin smiled as he stumbled into the inn. But then her smile froze.
The adventurers, who had been swearing and reacting to the presence of the Workers, took one look at Pawn and fell silent. Several sheathed weapons were unsheathed again. In the dead silence, someone swore loudly.
Pawn had to be helped by the two Workers into the inn. He swayed, unsteady. A trail of green blood followed him. Erin’s eyes were caught by the color. So green. So vibrant. A color she’d seen once on her hands before.
The Antinium named Pawn stared up at Erin. She stared back. Her thoughts had—stopped. She stared at him.
He was still Pawn. But he was missing one of his antennae, the one Ksmvr had severed. And he was missing arms as well. Three of them. And part of one leg.
The door closed, and the cold rain began to fall.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T06:46:09)
Leave typos here.
Ally (2023-03-16T14:10:00)
Actually, She reminds me a bit of Ryoka.
lowercase she
:)
Darby (2023-03-23T15:18:00)
It was dangerous and no mistake—but it was no Lich or even a stronger variety of the undead.
make* no mistake? Seems odd otherise
Broock (2023-11-20T03:12:36)
Aïe, l’interrogatoire de Pion ne c’est pas super bien passé.
Oof, le racisme naïf d’Erin.
Toni (2023-12-02T12:13:13)
“Sometimes, yes, Erin woke up sweating and crying in the middle of the night”
every once in a while there will be a sentence similar to this, and it hurts my heart every time. Honestly, with everything she’s been through, it’s incredible she seems perfectly sane most of the time (well, as sane as Erin can seem with her personality lol)
also, every time I see the name of the inn I get a little pang of disappointment. I’d really expected it to be a story about a literal wandering inn, but honestly I like it enough as is anyways (probably more than I would’ve liked the hypothetical, honestly)
AbraCadaver (2024-10-10T15:33:04)
Erin was bone-tired, but she was still smiling and still, surprisingly, having fun. The adventurers weren’t jerks, and they liked her cooking.
This felt nice :) I think this is the first time she’s really vibed with her class
Dude (2024-10-11T17:37:41)
Wait till vol. 8
SamArcher72 (2024-12-13T14:56:10)
Damn , the trauma trip just doesn’t end.
Julie (2025-02-05T17:13:25)
I wish Erin would treat Toren better :c he’s doing his best

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.51
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-51/

“I am individual. I am Antinium.”
That was the first whisper Erin heard out of Pawn. He sat, no longer bleeding, in the inn as she wrapped a bandage around his severed stumps.
The healing potions the adventurers had used had stopped the bleeding, but there was no way to restore lost limbs. And his severed wounds were still exposed to the air. The Antinium didn’t have skin but exoskeleton. So the bleeding wounds closed…slowly, the chitin creeping over bloody insides.
He whispered to Erin as she sat next to him. The half-Elf named Ceria and the other adventurers hovered around her or watched from their tables, silent spectators. But all of Erin’s attention was on the Antinium in front of her.
“What happened?”
He trembled.
“I was asked questions. I was tested. I passed.”
Erin looked at his broken body. Three arms had been cut away. And part of his foot—his carapace was cracked in multiple places and cut in others.
Torture.
“Is he coming after you? Ksmvr?”
The name made Pawn freeze like a—a cockroach caught in the light. He began shaking so uncontrollably the two Workers had to hold him so Erin could finish wrapping the bandage.
“He—the Prognugator let me go. He let me go. I am individual.Not Aberration. He let me go.”
Pawn repeated the words several times, rocking back and forth. Erin stared at him. She didn’t know what todo.
“Erin—”
She looked around. Ceria was staring at the Antinium.
“Who is this?”
“Pawn. This is Pawn. He’s a Worker.”
“No.”
All four Workers said the word as one. Erin looked at them. They spoke in unison.
“The individual known as Pawn is no longer a Worker.”
“Then whatis he?”
“Individual. Antinium. Not Aberration.”
They said it as if it meant something, but Erin couldn’t focus. All she heard was a buzzing in her head. Pawn was…
Ceria looked at Erin.
“This has something to do with the Antinium in the city, right? Did they have a—a fight? I’ve heard of Prognugators. If this Ksmvr is after your friend—”
“No.No!”
Pawn waved his one good arm wildly. Again, the other Workers had to restrain him.
“I am not Aberration. I am not. I am—”
He was incoherent, or as close to it as Erin had ever seen one of the Antinium. She stared at him. He was still shaking. And if he had the means, Erin was sure he would have wept. Instead, all he could do was tremble.
It was curious. Erin felt as though in this moment, she should be full of—something. Rage perhaps, or grief. But instead, there was nothing. Just a few thoughts.
Pawn was still babbling. He kept repeating his innocence as the other adventurers watched helplessly. Some of them looked disgusted, others actually sympathetic. And some were simply silent because it wasn’t the time to speak.
Erin had no time for them. Instead, she walked slowly over to a table. Olesm was paralyzed in his seat. He stared up at her, eyes wide. But Erin didn’t speak to him. Instead, she picked up what was in front of the Drake.
A chessboard.
Ceria blinked as Erin carried it back. But Pawn’s eyes latched onto the simple wooden board as Erin put it on the table in front of him. Pawn looked up into her eyes, and she felt the nothingness in her deepen.
Slowly, the two Workers propped Pawn up, and he moved so he could access the board with his remaining arm. The former Worker hesitated and then moved.
He shook like a leaf in the breeze. Pawn fumbled at the chess pieces with his single arm, clumsily trying to set them up and knocking them over. Trembling.
Erin stared at the Antinium and felt not a trace of fury in her. Not black fury, not burning rage nor wrath enough to power a thousand suns. Nothing.
Her hands were calm as she took Pawn’s pieces and set them up on the board. Carefully, she arranged his pieces and hers. He was white—she was black. He clumsily moved a pawn forwards, and she replied.
Queen’s Gambit. Dutch Defense. Erin crushed Pawn in only a few moves. Ruthlessly. Without guilt or hesitation.
The Antinium wavered. She felt and saw him hesitate and saw the other Workers around him staring. But then she reset the board, and he moved again.
King’s Pawn Game. French Defense. Erin played exactly the opposite game Pawn expected to, staying defensive and picking off his pieces slowly. She won again overwhelmingly.
Nothing. No feeling. Erin played in a void of calm, playing her best against a broken Pawn who could barely move his pieces. She reset the board, and they played.
Again, and again. Glacial silence, forest silence. The silence of endless days on the open desert where the winds devoured all and the sand was the only thing that ever changed. The silence of the open ocean on a sunny day—vast and loud, engulfing all things and making the world a green-blue landscape.
The silence of eternity, played out in the soft clicking of chess pieces on the board.
Again, Pawn played and Erin won. She rotated the board and made the first move. She won again.
He was alone. Alone, and not half the player she was. But with every game, something that had been cut away came back. Slowly, the Antinium’s trembling stopped.
He played. He lost. Erin felt nothing. But each game was a small slice of eternity cut and drifting between the two, a moment of healing, a moment of concentration and silence.
An [Immortal Moment].
And when it was done, when the games had finished and the sun had fallen and then night had turned back into day, Erin stopped. She let Pawn gently push over his king. The Antinium no longer trembled, and she sat in a silent ring of Workers, Goblins, and even adventurers who sat watching the game. A single skeleton hovered with a platter of food in hand, watching with eyes that had seen forever in death and saw forever caught in a single game of chess.
And still, Erin felt nothing. Not a flicker of pain, anger, or sadness crossed her heart. The emotions were too big for her. But whatever was in her prompted her. Erin felt it move, like the way the tide changed. A vast, deep feeling.
She spoke as Pawn hung his head low, drowsy with sleep.
“Ksmvr.”
The single word brought the Antinium out of his half-sleep, shuddering. But he was strong enough to hear the name now, strong enough to listen and not weep. Erin met Pawn’s eyes and saw a person staring through an insect’s multifaceted gaze.
She made no promises, spoke no untrue words. Erin reached out and held the cold insect Worker, hugging him gently. Then she stood up and said two words.
“I’m sorry.”
The door closed softly behind Erin. For a moment, all the adventurers stared, still caught in a fragment of forever. Then the silence was broken by shock and cursing as half the adventurers in the inn rushed out after her.
——
“Erin!”
Ceria was the first out of the inn. She was no warrior, but her heritage gave her grace and speed. And she wasn’t weighed down by armor.
The half-Elf ran into the rainy night and found the other girl was already gone. The door opened, and Yvlon and Cervial were outside right behind Ceria.
“Where did she go?”
“Towards the city, obviously. But she must be movingfast. I can’t even see her from here.”
“Well, let’s get after her! If she’s trying to pick a fight—”
“Humans.”
Ceria snapped the word, more as a general curse on the situation than an attack on Erin. She looked at Yvlon.
“I can go, but that Antinium needs watching. And I’ve got no movement Skills. Can you—?”
“Of course. You stop Calruz.”
“Right. And if she gets there first, don’t fight the one called Ksmvr. Attacking him is the same as attacking the Hive.”
Cervial nodded. He looked around, seeing through the dark night better than even Ceria could.
“Let’s go.I can’t see her. The girl must have some kind of running Skill.”
Without a word, the two captains ran towards the city, moving like a blur. Ceria watched them go and then turned. She saw other adventurers standing just outside, caught in indecision.
“If you want to go, go. But only drag that innkeeper back. Fighting here would be a mistake. But it would be better if less people were out in the darkness. We don’t know what kind of monsters live here.”
At her words, most of the adventurers went back into the inn. Or tried to. They had to retreat as a large shape pushed his way through the crowd.
Calruz emerged from the inn, face dark with anger. None of the Humans wanted to get in his way, but Ceria stood in front of the Minotaur’s path.
“Where do you think you’re going?”
“After the innkeeper. Where else?”
“Yvlon and Cervial are already after her. You wouldn’t be able to catch her anyways.”
Calruz grunted.
“Who says I’m going to catch her? The child needs a second for a proper death duel.”
“You willnot go. If we cause a disturbance—”
“Honor is at stake. You will not stop me.”
Ceria felt a massive hand move her aside. She thought about the few spells she could use and then abandoned the idea when she saw the look on Calruz’s face. She stared helplessly as the Minotaur strode off in the direction of the city.
“The other two might be able to stop him. If they get to the innkeeper in time.”
Gerial said it loudly behind Ceria. She had to raise her voice above the pounding rain. She was already soaked, but at least her enchanted robes weren’t getting soggy with water.
“I just hope she doesn’t actually try to fight that Antinium—or whoever he is. She’s no warrior.”
“No.”
The two leading members of the Horns of Hammerad stared at each other. They both felt it. The hint of déjà vu.
“If you want to go—”
“No. Calruz won’t listen to me anymore than you. And if he does pick a fight, better it’s only him. Besides—”
“Besides what?”
Gerial stared out into the rain, hand clenched.
“If I went out there, I don’t think I could stop myself.”
Ceria followed his gaze. The night was dark and stormy. She spoke distantly.
“That’s not what I’m worried about.”
“What?”
“It’s night. And—the timing of it.”
Ceria paused. Gerial stared at her. They trusted each other, and adventurers learned to listen to their feelings. Ceria hit on what her instincts were telling her and spoke.
“It feels like a trap.”
——
Ksmvr stood on a hilltop, waiting. He was not within the boundaries of Liscor. It was important that he was not.
Boundaries. Rules. Ksmvr understood them. They were important. Rules and order made up the Hive, and by such things could everything be understood.
Pacts had been made. The Soldiers of the Hive were not permitted above-ground save for times of emergency—or war. And while the definition of emergency could allow for numerous occasions, bringing the Soldiers above ground would bring about questions regardless. And the Queen was not to be disturbed.
But no such pacts had been established outside of the city. Therefore, four of the Soldier Antinium stood silently next to Ksmvr, silent giants waiting for his order. They were elite—perhaps not as strong individually as he was, but close. Together, they were more than enough to subdue a single [Innkeeper].
It might have been overkill to a Human, but the Antinium took no chances. And Erin Solstice had established her worth. Initially, Ksmvr had only known what his Queen had told him, and from that, he had thought of her as insignificant. Worthless.
But—and here was the difficult part—Erin Solsticewas important. She was valuable. Perhaps unique. His Queen had been wrong in her appraisal of Erin, and that bothered Ksmvr greatly.
But the duty of a Prognugator was to protect and serve the Hive. Ksmvr would do just that. He waited for Erin Solstice in the certainty that she would come.
Her actions were a matter of record. More than that, the established thought processes of Humans were well known to Ksmvr. She would come in fury and vengeance to be caught, and the individual known as Pawn would be easily retrieved. Minor obstacles like the Goblins, adventurers, and skeleton were of no object.
Ksmvr shifted in his position on the hilltop that afforded him a view of the area surrounding the city. He was not bored. He was incapable of being bored. But the time he had spent waiting bothered him.
The Soldiers behind Ksmvr did not move. They waited, alert for any threat. They did not get bored either.
But Relc was quite bored. The Drake yawned, and all five Antinium turned. Ksmvr’s swords and daggers sprang from their sheaths, and the Soldiers immediately raised their club-like hands.
“Hold it.”
Relc sat up in the grass, appearing out of the dark landscape as if by magic. It wasn’t magic of course. But mud and the Drake’s dark scales had made him practically invisible in the grass.
Ksmvr held up a hand and sent a mental order to the Soldiers. But neither he nor the other Antinium relaxed. He kept his swords pointed at the ground.
“Senior Guardsman Relc. Do you have business with me at this time? If so, I request it wait until tomorrow.”
Relc scratched at the back of his head. He looked at Ksmvr and glanced away.
“What? Oh, no, no. I don’t have business withyou.”
Ksmvr waited, but Relc didn’t say anything else. More questioning was in order.
“May I inquire as to your purpose here?”
“Sure, inquire away.”
More silence. Ksmvr was aware that Relc was being deliberately obstinate and confrontational. A troubling complication.
“Why have you followed my group?”
Relc raised what would have been an eyebrow.
“I’m not following—”
“Please refrain from lying. There is no other reason for you to be out here at this time of night. Moreover, you are not currently on duty. Why are you here?”
The Soldier Antinium shifted slightly. Relc eyed them, unimpressed. He flicked his tongue out and shrugged.
“I’m just taking a walk. And, uh, a nap. In the rain. Which I do quite often.”
Talking to people—or rather, interacting with those not of the Hive was difficult. And Ksmvr was unused to conversations with outsiders in the first place. Still, he persisted, keeping one eye on the dark landscape the entire time.
“Will you return to the city then?”
“Maybe. In time. I’m just enjoying myself.”
“I see. And will you continue to remain here so long as we are here?”
“Oh, no. I’ll leave pretty soon. Just as soon as a certain stupid Human girl gets back to her inn all safe and sound.”
Ksmvr interpreted that information, and the Soldiers around him raised their hands. Relc waved at them with his tail.
“Stop that. I’m not here for a fight. And neither are you, since I’d win.”
It was an accurate statement, at least in that the chances of Relc’s victory were higher than Ksmvr’s. And a deeply complicating factor. Therefore, Ksmvr attempted a higher degree of diplomacy than before.
“Your presence is unneeded. If Erin Solstice cooperates, she will be unharmed.”
“Yeah, but I don’t think she will. Do you? And frankly, even if you plan to feed her with a golden spoon, I don’t think I should let you take her.”
“Erin Solstice is not a citizen of Liscor. Your duty does not extend to—”
“Would you shut up?”
Relc said it pleasantly, but with an edge that made Ksmvr consider silence the most appropriate response. The Drake shook his head.
“You sound just like Klb back—well, back when I first met him. I don’t like that. So shut up and listen since I have to spell it out. Here’s what’s going to happen tonight. Erin Solstice is going to run into the city, probably with that stupid frying pan, andnot find you and a bunch of your big Antinium friends. She’s going to go back to her inn all safe and nice.”
“You are protecting her.”
“I guess.”
“Why?”
Relc paused.
“I like her. Well—I used to. Now, I think she’s a bloody idiot Human like the others. But at least she makes good pasta. And—well, let’s call it a favor. Klbkch died protecting her. I just figured it would be a shame if all his effort went to waste.”
There was an inconsistency in Relc’s statements, and Ksmvr leapt on it, sure of his success.
“Klbkch was a member of the Hive. By obstructing my work, you obstruct the Hive.”
Strangely, Relc did not respond to this logical inconsistency like Ksmvr had predicted. He just shrugged.
“Yeah. But I don’t like you.”
Dealing with non-Antinium was so—sofrustrating. Ksmvr felt an unexplored emotion within him. Troubling. But he persisted.
“I am Prognugator of the Free Antinium of Liscor. My authority—”
“Shut up.”
Another tack.
“I have four Soldiers with me.”
Relc yawned. He eyed the silent Antinium, whose hands were literal weapons. Their carapaces were equivalent to unenchanted plate armor, and they possessed numerous abilities inherent to the Antinium that other species did not have. Even so, Relc did not appear intimidated.
“I’ve heard that a newly grown soldier is the equivalent of a Level 15 [Warrior] for most species. Interesting. But if you think those guys frighten me, I’ll rip a few of their heads off for you. The Antinium never attacked Liscor in the second war, so you have no idea how strong I am.”
Ksmvr paused and tilted his head as he accessed the required memory.
“Relc Grasstongue, former sergeant of the 1st Wing of the Liscorian army. Currently Level 33 in the [Spearmaster] class and Level 12 in the [Guardsman] class. Negligible levels in the [Archer] class as well as the [Carpenter] class. Possesses mainly combat skills as well as the rare skill [Triple Thrust].”
“…Damn bugs. Did Klbkch tell you that?”
At last. Dialogue. Ksmvr did not have the facial muscles—or face—to smile, but a part of him felt relieved. He attempted to continue the conversation.
“Klbkch estimated that, if necessary, he would be able to hold you off for five minutes and inflict serious wounds before death. If given the order to terminate, he predicted a sneak attack had an even chance of killing you.”
The look Relc gave Ksmvr did not indicate a positive reaction to the conversation.
“I really don’t like you, you know.”
“Your regard for me matters little. My position is temporary.”
“Good for you, I guess. Why are you talking so much, anyways?”
“I am attempting to build the same level of camaraderie shared between you and former Prognugator Klbkch.”
Another pause, and this time, Relc’s expression darkened. He uncrossed his arms and took a step back as if the words had been a threat—which they were not. For some reason, his face looked troubled. Socialization—difficult, as Ksmvr had repeatedly observed. So many unclear variables.
“Well. I—no. I’m going to stand over here until Erin comes by.”
He began to walk off. Ksmvr called out after him.
“Sixteen more Soldiers are currently moving towards this location. You will not be able to stop them alone.”
Relc paused. Ksmvr couldn’t see—but the Drake looked like he was grinning.
“That’s sort of funny. I guess not all of you Antinium are alike, huh?”
“What leads you to that conclusion?”
“You don’t have [Dangersense]. You’d better pray you get it, or another skill like it, soon.”
Relc nodded towards a distant hill. Ksmvr looked and mentally ordered the Soldiers leaving the Hive to hold position. Perhaps if he were Human, he might never have seen the silent figure crouching and smiling down at the two warriors. But he was Antinium, and he recognized Gazi on sight.
The Drake sat down on the hill casually, ignoring the other Antinium still watching him. He nodded towards Gazi’s distant figure.
“Nowshe could eat you and your cute little soldiers for breakfast. Me, she’d probably choke on the way down.”
Ksmvr was capable of free-thought, a mark of his position and importance to the Hive. He was a leader, meant to direct soldiers and deal with unexpected situations as they arose. Never mind that he had become Prognugator before his training period was over—he was trusted by the Queen. But—but—
But no matter how hard he thought, he couldn’t decide what to do. Erin Solstice was important. But with the presence of Gazi the Omniscient as well as Relc, suddenly the costs of capturing Erin Solstice became too high.
But she was important. But it was too costly. But she was important. But it was too costly. What should he do? His Queen had ordered him not to disturb her. But he knew the importance of Individuals. His entire duty—the entire duty of the Antinium within Liscor revolved around the importance of this. But it was too dangerous.
What should he do? For the first time in his short life, Ksmvr had no idea what he should do.
——
It was a silent—well, stalemate wasn’t the word. From their position within a deep section of the grass, the other watchers could see that the Antinium were in trouble. Even as they watched, their leader came to a decision. He spoke a few words to Relc, and the Antinium surrounding him began marching back to the city.
That was good.
“There. It is well that we did not have to intervene, yes?”
Krshia spoke her comment quietly, but even with the pouring rain, the other Gnolls lying in the grass heard her perfectly. Tkrn and six of the other Gnolls relaxed their hold on their bows. Tkrn nodded at Ksmvr as the Antinium swiftly descended the hill, flanked by his Soldiers.
“It might be best to slay the bug before he returns to the city, yes? It would not be too difficult to do, especially if he intends to hurt this Erin Solstice.”
“Fool.”
Tkrn barely saw the paw that cuffed him on the head. Krshia glared at him between the long stalks of grass.
“He was not trying to kill her. Use your brain, you fool, you.”
The other Gnolls chuckled in amusement as Tkrn flattened his ears in embarrassment. As the most junior member of the Gnolls—and the most inexperienced—it was even more humiliating to make a mistake in front of their leader.
“But he hadSoldiers.”
Krshia snorted.
“Yes, to capture her. But he was waiting for Erin Solstice to arrive, yes? That is suspicious. Who waits for a challenge? Only Humans in their pride and Drakes do that, yes? We fight without needing large open spaces and people to watch. But the Antinium—they are even more different than we.”
She nodded at Ksmvr as the Antinium marched back across the flatlands. The Antinium was alert—constantly scanning the landscape. But despite the Antinium’s impressive dark vision, they were no hunters of the plains. Krshia and the other Gnolls were perfectly hidden in their cover.
“If he—Ksmvr—wanted Erin Solstice dead, then dead she would be already. He would stab her before she saw him, yes? But he wanted her here and had many Soldiers with him. Another thing. It is a violation of the treaty to let them out of the Hive unless the city is in danger. Maybe this one is no Klbkch. What am I saying? Heis no Klbkch, but it is extraordinary all the same.”
She shook her head.
“Someoneelse wants Erin Solstice. And excluding the foolish Drake, three different sides came for her tonight.”
“It seems you are right. This Erin Solstice, she is important.”
Another Gnoll made that comment, and the others nodded. If they had doubted Krshia before—and if they had, they were wise enough to never have said it in her presence—tonight changed that. She glared at them.
“I said it, did I not? But it is poor fortune that it is known. We must hurry.”
The other Gnolls nodded. One spoke.
“The other warriors will arrive soon. Within the week.”
“Good.”
Tkrn shifted. He eyed the hill where the silent figure of Gazi was still crouching and engaging in a staring contest with Relc.
“Should we leave, then? Or will Gazi do something?”
The other Gnolls muttered. They knew the odds of taking on a Named Adventurer. Krshia shook her head.
“I do not think so. She is crafty, and she is waiting. I do not think she would have intervened unless all others failed, including we.”
“But she is still here, yes.”
“Yes.”
Krshia scowled up at Gazi. It was impossible—they were perfectly hidden, but the half-Gazer’s eye flicked away from Relc and towards them for the merest fraction of a second. Krshia muttered something as the other Gnolls growled.
“She likes to watch.”
“Well, she can’t do anything to us even if she knows we’re here.”
This time, Tkrn received several admonitory paws to the back of the head. Krshia shook herself and sent water drops flying now that their cover had been broken.
“Maybe not. But it is an ill thing to be spotted. We will wait to make sure she does nothing. Just in case.”
The Gnolls sat up in the grass, relaxing. Relc still hadn’t spotted them, but then, the Drake only relied on his Skills. And the problem with [Dangersense] is that it only told him when there was potential threat.
They meant him no harm. They were on the same side, at least for the night. So the Gnolls waited. The half-Gazer sat patiently, and the Drake ripped up pieces of grass. The night was silent.
They waited.
And waited.
And…
From their position in the grass, the Gnolls saw Relc shift and scratch irritably at his scales. He looked around and then voiced the question on everyone’s mind.
“Whereis she?”
——
“We couldn’t find her.”
Ceria stared in disbelief at Yvlon and Cervial as the two adventurers returned, panting. They’d run all the way to Liscor and back in less than thirty minutes.
“What?”
“We got to the gates, but the guard there said no one had come by.”
Both of the adventurers shrugged helplessly. Ceria chewed at her lip.
“Maybe she got lost?”
“I doubt it.”
“Then a monster—”
“We would have noticed that.”
“Then whereis she?”
“I don’t know. Did you spot Calruz by any chance?”
Cervial smiled crookedly.
“Yeah. He tried to get into the city, but the guard told him the gates were closed. He’s stomping his way back now.”
Well, that was one problem solved. But the bigger problem remained. Where was Erin Solstice? Ceria stared around, but the night was still full of rain and seeing was impossible.
“Well, we’ll just have to wait. Come on inside—the skeleton is mad as hell, but it’s staying put for some reason. I guess we should as well.”
Yvlon and Cervial trooped back into the inn. Ceria looked around one last time. It was so strange. She’d assumed—
Something dropped from the roof of the inn and landed right next to Ceria. The half-Elf yelped, grabbed for her wand, and stopped.
Erin got up from the ground, wincing at the bad fall. She brushed mud off her shirt and paused as she saw Ceria.
“Oh. Hi.”
Ceria clutched at her heart. It felt as if it hadstopped.
“What are you—where were you?”
Erin blinked at her. She pointed up.
“I was on the roof.”
Ceria stared up. The roof.
“…Doingwhat?”
Erin shrugged. She wiped at her face. It didn’t do much in the rain.
“I was crying. What did you think I was doing?”
Her eyes were red. Ceria could see that perfectly. She replied lamely.
“We—we thought you were going after Ksmvr.”
“Why would I do that?”
Again, Ceria had to stop. She grappled with words.
“Well, after what he did to your friend—I’d say everyone in the inn would have joined you. Calruz especially.”
“Really. Really?”
Erin snuffled again and wiped at her nose.
“That’s nice of you. I guess. You could all hold him down while I bashed his brains out with a frying pan, right?”
“We wouldn’t do that. Calruz—thought you were going to duel him.”
“And kill him?”
Erin looked at Ceria. It was an odd stare. Accusatory. Hurt. Ceria shifted, suddenly awkward.
“But what he did—”
“Evil.”
Erin said it flatly.
“Pawn was innocent. He didn’t deserve that. When I saw what that bastard did—”
“Yeah. So we thought—”
Ceria trailed off lamely. Erin was still staring at her. As if it were the most obvious thing in the world, she shook her head.
“He hurt Pawn. But does that mean I should go out there and beat him to death? How? He’s a warrior, and I’m—I’m an innkeeper. And I don’t murder people. I kill monsters, and I’ve killed in self-defense. But I don’t murder people. Ever.”
It was too hard to meet the girl’s eyes. Ceria looked away. It felt like she was speaking to someone strange. Something—
She had never needed to use the word ‘alien’ in the common tongue. The closest words Ceria knew wereoutsider, strange, unnatural, and yes, sometimes other species could surprise her, like Selphids. But in this moment, she truly did feel like ‘alien’ fit, genuinely and without bias.Someone completely alien to Ceria’s understanding of the world.
Erin was staring at her, a hint of accusation in her stare. And it was hard to bear. There was something innocent in her gaze, something that Ceria had lost long ago when she first stared into a dead man’s eyes.
“I’m sorry. I just assumed—”
Erin shrugged. She paused and stared around at the dark landscape. Ceria saw her lips move.
“Can I tell you something? Something sort of offensive?”
“Sure.”
Erin stared at the ground and the wet grass. Her breath appeared in the cold air.
“You guys have a really shitty world. A really bad one.”
“We do…?”
“I don’t like it. It’s so wonderful at times—so beautiful and full of magic. But then this happens. Every time. Well. Almost every time. I hate it.”
Ceria had nothing to say to that.
“For a moment, I wanted to kill Ksmvr too. But I would die if I tried that, right? He’s fast. Strong. A warrior. Maybe I could kill him. But then what?”
“He’d be dead.”
“And so would Pawn. Probably. That Queen would send her Soldiers to rip off his head and mine.”
“I understand. You made the right choice.”
Erin shivered.
“Did I? It seems like all I can do at times like this is just accept what happened and move on.”
She shivered. Ceria was conscious of how cold it was. The enchantments on her robes made her feel warm even in the freezing rain, but the Human girl had sat up on the rooftop for—it had to be an hour at least.
“You should come inside. I’m sure Pawn will want to see you.”
She reached out for Erin. The girl’s skin was deathly cold. She muttered something.
“…know.”
“What?”
Erin shook her head.
“I don’t know. I don’t know what to do tostop it. But I do know what to do.”
She walked past Ceria, into the inn. The half-Elf followed, watching. There was something in the Human girl’s eyes.
Pawn half-rose in his seat when he saw her. Anxiety was written all over his face, although only Erin could see it. She smiled at him and sneezed.
The other adventurers stared at Erin. She ignored them. They were not important. Instead, she sat down as Toren rushed towards her with a towel. She patted the cold water off her and felt a bit more alive when he gave her a steaming mug of boiled water.
Olesm had been playing Pawn. But the Drake instantly stood to give her his seat. Erin shook her head.
“Go on. Keep playing.”
The Drake blinked at her and then awkwardly sat down. Erin sat next to Pawn. At first, the Antinium looked at her, but she smiled. It was very quiet in the room. After a while, Olesm coughed and awkwardly moved a piece forward.
Pawn played. The two played. Erin looked at the Workers and got them a chess set. It was strange. The Workers sat and began playing. The adventurers sat awkwardly. After a while, Erin had Toren bring out some leftovers.
And it was still silent. So when the feeling in Erin couldn’t be contained, she opened her mouth.
And began to sing.
It caught Pawn off-guard. He froze as he held a knight in his hand and stared at Erin. So did everyone else. But the awkwardness—the fear she might have felt was nothing. So Erin sang.
She had never been good at singing. Or rather, she’d never been as good at singing as she had at playing chess. But when she was a kid, before she’d quit going to church, she’d been part of the choir. She’d sung in the school choir, and once, just once, her teacher had encouraged her to study singing.
But she hadn’t. Erin had played chess and forgotten how to breathe properly, stopped singing every week. But the music had lingered, and she’d never really forgotten how.
“I don’t know why you hurt inside or what was said to make you cry…”
She didn’t know why she started with a Lady Gaga song. But that one she’d always loved because it made her feel better. AndGreatest was probably her greatest song.
Erin had no piano. No voice synthesizer, no backup choir; she didn’t even have a microphone. But she didn’t need those things.
Her voice filled up the room, and it seemed to her audience that even though only one person was singing, they could hear something else. The same song Erin had heard first while sitting in her room playing chess.
Was it one person singing or two? They heard another voice. Strange drums—the sound of a piano—a voice singing with electronic sound in ways they could never have imagined.
Ceria listened and heard another voice and a kind of music she’d never heard of wherever she’d gone. She closed her eyes and thought of a girl who knew colors that Ceria had never seen in her life.
Olesm was playing. Pawn kept moving pieces, but that was a backdrop to the music. Erin finished her song, and silence beat down again. It was oppressive, so she chose another song.
The adventurers had never heard a ukulele played before. But even though Erin wasn’t playing one, they heard it now. And in her voice—a man’s voice. Singing.
“Somewhere over the rainbow way up high…”
She’d always loved Israel Kamakawiwoʻole’s version of that song more than the Judy Garland one. And she’d loved both with all her heart.
The song was lighter, happier in a way, but in another way—not. Someone was crying. Erin kept singing, conjuring a piece of something the people in her inn had never heard before. A piece of immortal music.
Another immortal moment.
And then, of course, she kept singing. Somewhere, Erin started singingHallelujah and smiled as she remembered watching Shrek for the first time. The music poured out of her as Pawn played a game of chess, pausing to stare at her.
The other adventurers were silent. Ceria listened in silence. She was half-Elf. Half of her had grown up knowing the fragments of forever—but the other half was still in awe.
But the Humans listened to something that was not part of their world. They listened as Erin sang to their hearts.
“I have died everyday, waiting for you. Darling, don’t be afraid, I have loved you for a thousand years…”
Gerial wept into his mustache. The adventurers sat in silence. Yvlon closed her eyes, and Cervial kept rubbing at his.
A moment of eternity. A song. A fragment of the past. A memory.
Immortality brought to life with every verse.
——
She taught them one song.Here I Am Lord, a song from church. It mattered. It was important. And when she sang it, Pawn looked up.
First, Erin sang.
“I, the Lord of Sea and Sky. I have heard my people cry. All who dwell in dark and sin, my hand will save.”
Erin sang with Ceria, two soft voices singing as the half-Elf joined in.
“Here I am, Lord. Is it I, Lord? I have heard You calling in the night.”
And then the others joined in. Men and women, singing a song for a god this world had never known. By the end of the third verse, all the Humans were singing. Calruz leaned against the doorway, frowning, closing his eyes and listening, silent. Pawn listened as Erin sang, leaning against him, warming him.
“I will hold Your people in my heart.”
He shuddered then. And then when she looked at him, he did not cry. The Antinium do not weep. But she still saw the tears in his soul.
And the night passed to day, and Erin sang on. Small songs, grand songs. And the magic was with her, fading with every note. Until she simply sang and the moment was no longer forever. But it was enough. When Erin finally closed her eyes, the inn was silent.
And though the Antinium didn’t smile, she did. For him. For the both of them. Not a smile to say everything was fine. Not to hide the pain, but a smile in spite of the bleeding. As brave as the little Worker who clung to her as she sang him to his rest. Then, and only then, did she let him go, slumbering, and go to the kitchen and lie down.
Erin closed her eyes and slept.
[Innkeeper Level 15!]
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T06:49:32)
Leave your typos here.
dinoseen (2023-03-10T13:23:54)
I guess Erin was able to conjure all that up at the end because of her Immortal Moment skill?
juppie (2023-03-18T08:45:39)
yes
Grault (2023-03-21T08:05:02)
Until she burnt the mana out, which seems very significant.
And the magic was with her, fading with every note.
Darby (2023-03-23T15:59:29)
“And when it was done, when the games had finished and the sun had fallen and then night had turned back into day.”
Next scene it is still night.  Does not turn day until singing is done
Darby (2023-03-24T10:17:04)
Also, goblins are mentioned being in the inn and never again. Pretty sure there would have been an ordeal with the adventurers, so not sure if they’re supposed to be there?  Was an Imortal Moment so I can see it, but again, they’re only mentioned once.
” The Antinium no longer trembled, and she sat in a silent ring of Workers, Goblins, and even adventurers who sat watching the game.”
Typo (2023-04-29T15:03:54)
Calruz won’t listen to me anymore than you.
Calruz won’t listen to me any more than you.
HighJumper (2023-05-02T17:56:15)
The healing potions the adventurers had used had stopped the bleeding, butthere was no way to restore lost limbs. 
> The healing potions the adventurers had used had stopped the bleeding, butthey couldn’t restore lost limbs.
This establishes no limb restoration as a limitation of the Silver-rank adventurers and their weak healing potions, and foreshadows the healing paste of the Antinium and more powerful Restoration potions later in the series.
BertieD (2023-07-02T17:00:52)
Ah, damn, this got me. This properly got me.
Just…tears.
greycat (2023-07-23T22:33:45)
It’s fine as written.  “There was no way to restore lost limbs” reflects the common understanding of all the Humans (and Half-Elves and Minotaurs) present, and what the reader is intended to believe.  Rewriting it that way would foreshadow too much.
Salamander (2023-08-12T21:12:02)
Holy shit, that was beautiful. It got me teary-eyed. On a side-note, seeing Erin interact with the adventurers just reminds me of how terrible Ryoka is.
Scrifty (2023-11-08T22:33:47)
Ryoka is in a rut that only she can climb herself out of. It would be fun to see her climb (or spiral worse). Her story reminds me a lot of Hurt by Johnny Cash.
XTZ (2023-11-14T01:39:17)
How Relc and gnolls found out that Erin left the Inn? Ksmvr planned and hoped to Erin will come, but the others?
Broock (2023-11-20T03:52:44)
Elle en fait tourner des t?tes Erin.
Marrant, la première utilisation de son skill “Instant éternel”(moment immortel) dans ce chapitre à spawn les gobelins le temps d’une scène, par contre les autres utilisations durant la “musique immortelle”, ils n’apparaissent pas.
yagoldt (2024-01-13T05:15:59)
Snooze chapter
Whats (2024-02-19T03:27:39)
Because we didn’t see any bone breaking and edgy revenge thing hahahahaa classic
Sylver (2024-03-01T22:11:27)
hahaha here I am really enjoying this chapter, vibing to somewhere over the rainbow in what feels like ages and he goes “snooze chapter” my guy is reading the wrong webnovel
Nicnom (2024-03-18T11:24:13)
That’s the slightly hilarious bit of this chapter; they all just assumed, the Antinium could so well guess at vindication that they thought to force it. Relc and the gnolls and adventurers all also assume violence, kinda proving that true.
From the moment the fast adventurers couldn’t see her, though, and the Antinium thought they were so right—well, we had are cues that they were all pretty wrong. They guessed wrong, simple as that.
And Ksmvr was out there waiting while she played chess, too. Lol
Aeri (2024-05-29T10:45:37)
Rather than finding out Erin left the inn, I imagine they all found out Pawn had left the city towards the inn, and guessed (incorrectly) what Erin’s reaction would be.
While a Worker or three leaving the city probably wasn’t anything too strange anymore, Pawn leaving in the condition he was in would almost certainly be remarked upon by the guards and anyone that saw him. The gnolls would almost definitely notify Krshia. Relc is a bit harder, but the guards could have conceivably notified him or just made note of it in the Watch House, or he could be keeping tabs on Ksmvr.
Chrimbus (2024-11-15T18:48:22)
Doesn’t the timeline seem a little off in this chapter? Erin plays chess with Pawn “until the sun had fallen and night had turned back into day.” Then she goes outside and suddenly it’s “a rainy night”, and then she comes back and sings until it’s day again.
SamArcher72 (2024-12-13T15:39:43)
Whelp , If feels hitting with a gut-punch was a chapter ,it would be this one.
Abianko (2025-02-10T12:20:27)
“A moment of eternity. A song. A fragment of the past. A memory.
Immortality brought to life with every verse.”
I read this chapter with the mentioned songs in the background and I’m so grateful I did. It hits deeper if possible. Thank you for this immortal moment.
Dervish (2025-02-14T00:44:27)
I’ve been enjoying this story, hoping to catch up. But I’m stopping here, for a moment. I want to savor the moment  you’ve shared with us. This has been a fun story and a nice take on the genre – and this chapter really stands out.
Thank  you.
Haven (2025-12-15T18:41:28)
That was incredible, so beautiful, so healing, moments like this is why I’ve endured through all the pain and violence. This dialectic and nuance and complexity is exactly why I was drawn to and continue to stay invested in this story!
“Not a smile to say everything was fine. Not to hide the pain, but a smile in spite of the bleeding. “

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.53
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-53/

Ceria woke up first. It was an unconscious act on the part of her body that her mind wanted no part of. As the first rays of dawn hit her, she opened her eyes and sat up in her bed.
It was too early. And despite her early rising, Ceria wasnot a morning person.
But some things were too hard to forget. It had been years—decades, really—since Ceria had needed to wake up this early. She was safe in this inn, among her friends and companions. Safe.
Yet it was impossible to forget some things. Pisces had brought it out. It was his fault; his face made her remember better times. The academy and all that had gone wrong there. She…
She didn’t feel like attacking him.Not after—what, six years? But it still weighed on her and, she hoped, him too.
Rubbing her face with her hands, Ceria decided that she was up. Remembering the past would only lead to nightmares, and she wasn’t about to wake the inn screaming.
So despite the early hour and lack of sleep, Ceria stumbled downstairs. She blinked around at the room.
“Dd.”
She’d meant to say ‘odd’, but her mouth wasn’t working. What was odd wasn’t that the common room of the inn was a mess—what was odd was that it wasnot.
Last night. Ceria rubbed at her eyes again and remembered. Music. A night that had lasted forever. Songs and—something else. Some instruments she’d never heard before and beautiful words.
It felt like a dream. But it had been real, so it felt even more dreamlike. She remembered stumbling up to bed as the other adventurers left, still caught in that magical moment.
Yes—they’d left, but adventurers always created messes wherever they went. Mostly in the form of dead monster corpses and blood, but in this case in the form of empty dishes, dirt, spilled food and drink, and coins scattered on the tables.
None of that was here now. The room was clean. In fact, in the morning light, the polished wood practically sparkled at Ceria.
She found that mildly offensive. But hunger was distracting her in no small way. She stumbled towards the kitchen—
And froze as a skeleton blocked the doorway.
“Wood rot.”
That wastwice now that Ceria felt her heart was literally about to stop. She staggered backwards and pointed shakily at the skeleton.
“Don’t—do that!”
The skeleton was silent. Ceria blinked at it, still not quite thinking properly. It had a name, didn’t it? Erin called it—
“Toren, right?”
The skeleton made no reply. Well, it had probably been the one to clean up the room. Last Ceria had seen, the girl Erin Solstice had been sleeping next to the Antinium named Pawn.
Who also wasn’t here.
Something about that made an alarm bell go off in Ceria’s head, but she was distracted by pressing needs and the undead monster in front of her.
“Is your mistress up? I’d like some breakfast, but I can get it myself.”
Ceria went to move past the skeleton, but its arm shot out and blocked her way. She stopped and stared at it.
“What are you—”
It put a finger to its yellowed teeth even as Ceria saw Erin rolled up in a blanket in the corner of the kitchen. She blinked at the girl.
“That’s where she sleeps?”
The skeleton made no sound, but it seemed irked that Ceria was still making sound. The half-Elf shook her head. It was too early for this.
“I’m hungry.”
No response. The skeleton stared at her.
“I need food.”
Again, the pitiless cold flames of death were her only answer. Ceria tried to push the skeleton aside, but it grabbed her hand warningly. She eyed it. It looked—well, it was Pisces’ creation. Carefully, she withdrew her hand.
“Fine. No waking her. But can you get me something to eat? Or—cook something?”
The skeleton seemed to consider this. After a moment, it reluctantly nodded and walked into the kitchen. Unlike the many skeletons Ceria had seen or killed, this one walked with something approaching grace. It was a superior version of an inferior undead creature, and there was only one mage stupid enough to create something like that.
Pisces.Ceria narrowed her eyes at the skeleton as it trotted into the kitchen. It was certainly an improvement on his older work. For one thing, this skeleton was quite intelligent. But that in itself wasn’t a good thing. It meant he was closer to his goal. If he ever made an undead that was capable of leveling—
She blinked as Toren appeared in front of her. He was holding something.
“Is that…a loaf of bread?”
It was. An entire loaf, unmarred by imperfections such as slicing or condiments. Toren thrust it at her.
Ceria took it and stared at him.
“Am I supposed to eat this? I need something else, you know.”
The skeleton couldn’t sigh. But Ceria distinctly got that it would if it could. It stared at her and then walked silently back into the kitchen.
Bemused, Ceria sat at a table and stared at the loaf. After a moment, she fished out her belt knife.
She’d just managed to cut a few slices away when the skeleton reappeared. It put a bowl down in front of Ceria. She stared at that too. It was also holding eggs.
Toren dropped the eggs in front of Ceria next to the loaf of bread. Then it added a bag of sugar. It went away and brought a cup and a pitcher of water out and then walked back into the kitchen.
Ceria stared at the food on her table. She eyed the eggs, bread, sugar, and the water. She caught one of the eggs before it rolled off the table and stared at it.
She shrugged.
——
When Gerial stumbled downstairs, yawning and rubbing at his eyes, he found Ceria dipping slices of bread into a bowl of egg yolks. Some sugar had also been added to a slice of bread and turned into a sandwich that made him entirely forget about breakfast.
The half-Elf looked up as she munched on her dipped slice of bread. She was reading from her spell book.
“Oh. Hey. The innkeeper’s asleep, so there’s no breakfast. But the skeleton got me some food. Want some?”
Gerial stared at the raw egg dripping from the slice of bread. He shuddered.
“That’sdisgusting.”
Ceria rolled her eyes.
“You Humans. You eat eggs all the time. What’s the difference between frying them and grabbing them from a nest?”
“A very big difference, thank you.”
Gerial sat at the table and tried not to watch Ceria chomping down her meal. He stared at her cup.
“Is that sugar?”
“Goes well with the water if you add enough. Want some?”
He hesitated.
“I think I’d prefer normal food, thanks. Where’s the innkeeper?”
“Still asleep, I think. She’s in there.”
Ceria nodded to the kitchen.
“That damn skeleton’s guarding her though, so don’t go in. This is all it gave me to eat.”
“I see.”
“Yup. So this is the only food you’re getting for a while. Want some?”
“Pass.”
The two adventurers sat in silence for a while. It wasn’t the first time they’d done this. Gerial was a morning person, and he’d often found Ceria awake. His stomach rumbled, and he tried to ignore it.
After a while, the silence was too much. Gerial had to talk. He rubbed at his mustache and awkwardly cleared his throat. Ceria looked up and raised an eyebrow.
“So. Last night.”
“It was quite something, wasn’t it?”
“Something? It was—”
Gerial didn’t have words to describe it. He was no mage, and the memory of last night stuck in his head as something he could only describe as magical.
“Whatwas that? Was it a spell?”
“A Skill, I think. Not one I’ve ever heard of. Must be a rare one.”
“But that wasn’t it either. Those songs—”
“Beautiful.”
Ceria smiled, and Gerial nodded fervently. But she didn’t seem as awed as he was by the memory. She frowned slightly.
“It was amazing. But odd as well.”
“Odd?”
“I’ve never heard any of the songs she sang. Not one. And the music that came with it—did it sound like anything you’d ever heard before?”
“Not even in my dreams.”
But Gerial had dreamed of those songs last night. He felt his eyes sting a bit as he remembered and turned his head to wipe at them. Ceria shook her head.
“They were moving, but that’s not the point, Gerial. It’s another mystery. Where did that music come from? How did that girl—”
She glanced up and stopped talking abruptly. That was another thing Gerial was used to, so when Erin stumbled out of the kitchen, he was already turning to greet her.
“Good morning, Miss Erin.”
She stopped and stared at him. She was still wearing the same food-spattered clothing she’d had on yesterday, and the rain and muck had made the smell and sight worse. She also looked miserable.
“Morning.”
Ceria nodded at Erin. The girl shook her head.
“Is everything alright?”
Another shake. Erin paused, made a face, and reluctantly opened her mouth.
“I hab a thore throat. And a cold.”
“Oh.”
“I see. My condolences.”
Erin staggered over to their table and flopped onto it. Gerial saw the skeleton walk out of the kitchen and stand behind her. Erin didn’t seem to notice—or care.
Ceria put down her book and pushed aside her bowl of egg yolk to peer at Erin. She shook her head.
“It must have been sitting out in the rain last night that did it.”
“I bnow.”
The half-Elf was already focusing on Erin, her fingers glowing with pale green light.
“I can do something about the sore throat, but healing potions don’t cure colds. And I wouldn’t recommend you trying one unless you want to roll the dice on it getting better—or turning into a debilitating sickness.”
“Really? You can—”
Erinyelped as Ceria poked her throat. Instantly, the skeleton behind her raised a threatening fist, but Erin sat back in her chair.
“Ow, that—hey! My throat is better!”
She still had a stuffed nose, though. Silently, Gerial offered her his handkerchief. Erin blew her nose and looked at him gratefully.
“Sorry.”
“Think nothing of it.”
Erin sniffed and handed him the handkerchief back.
“I hate colds.”
She looked at Ceria and Gerial pleadingly.
“Magic?”
Ceria shook her head at Erin.
“I’m sorry, but I can’t cure that so easily. I only know [Numb]—the spell I used on your throat—and colds are tricky. Way beyond me. Maybe a [Healer] can cure it? Drink hot soup.”
“What? But it’s acold.”
Erin whined at Ceria. The half-Elf sighed, but remained patient.
“It’s a cold. The most common of illnesses. Which means no one’s figured out how to get rid of it. And before you suggest it—experimenting on sicknesses can create far worse kinds. Or just make them immune to magical healing at all.”
Gerial was surprised.
“That can happen? I thought—well, it’s just being sick, isn’t it?”
The half-Elf gave him a huge shrug.
“Don’t ask me. Apparently, things can develop immunities to magic. Mold, diseases—it’s why you don’t always use [Cleanse] to clean even Wistram Academy. They have Golems with mops.”
Erin groaned.
“Magic-resistant super-viruses. Just what I need.”
More words that the adventurers didn’t quite understand, but both got the meaning. Ceria shrugged regretfully at Erin. Then she glanced at Gerial with a slight smile.
“Looks like breakfast is canceled, Gerial. Unless you all want to risk getting sick before the ruins.”
He sighed.
“No helping it, I suppose.”
“I can make food.”
Erin tried to sit up, but Ceria gently shook her head.
“Some rest will do you more good than anything else. And you coughing into the food won’t do anyone any good.”
She was right, and Erin sagged back into her seat.
“Sorry.”
“Don’t mention it.”
Gerial was already standing and stretching. He was hungry, but it wouldn’t be the first time he’d missed or deferred breakfast until a later date. He nodded at Erin.
“We’re going into the city. I think Calruz is already gone, but the others are still asleep. Don’t worry about feeding us—they can always go into the city.”
Ceria looked surprised. She glanced upstairs.
“Calruz is gone? I didn’t hear him moving.”
“I don’t think he slept. He went after the bug—ah, I mean, the one called Pawn.”
Erin sat up in her chair, suddenly wide awake. She stared around the empty room.
“Pawn?”
——
Pawn of the Antinium had not slept since the night. It wasn’t as if he’d missed much sleep, though. Erin Solstice had sung well into the morning, so it was only an hour or two later that he sat outside the Wandering Inn, thinking.
And suffering. He could still feel his missing appendages, or rather, the places where theyshould be. It felt…horrible. Horrible in a way he couldn’t describe, not to be able to move properly. But there was nothing he could do, and at least the pain had stopped.
Small mercies. But the memory of how he had lost his limbs still haunted him. And yet the memory of what had happened last night was with him as well. He still heard the music, still felt his soul shifting,hurting, rejoicing as he heard Erin sing.
Pain and wonder. They fought for dominion, but the pain was nothing compared to the wonder that still filled him.
So he sat and thought. He thought of many things, from his role in the Hive as it had been to what it was now. He thought about what he had suffered and what was happening. He thought about many things and had no answers. But when he thought about Erin Solstice, he felt something else.
And he had no words for that emotion. And it was troubling. In a good way and a bad way, but enough so that when the Minotaur stomped towards him, Pawn was almost glad of the interruption.
“You.”
Pawn inclined his head respectfully. He didn’t know if he should, but all he knew was his role as a Worker. Yet he wasn’t one anymore. Should he be respectful? It seemed appropriate.
“Adventurer-Captain Calruz. How may I help you?”
The large Minotaur scowled down at Pawn. His eyes were shadowed, and he looked tired. And angry. He’d been walking outside by the looks of it, but now he stopped and stared down at Pawn.
“Answer me something, insect. Why did you not fight?”
Pawn stared up at Calruz.
“I’m sorry?”
The Minotaur glared at Pawn. He jabbed a finger at Pawn’s chest.
“You. Why did you notfight? When you were being tortured by your own kind—why did you not resist? Are all of your kind cowards or do you not have any pride?”
The question was so surprising to Pawn that he took a few moments to respond.
“I had no right to resist. The one who took me—he was the Prognugator. He judges other Antinium. Our lives are his to use.”
Calruz looked disbelievingly at Pawn.
“So. You would allow death and dishonor to befall you because of mererank? The House of Minos respects rank—but even Prince Khedal or our King would expect to be challenged if they spoke or acted madness. Have the Antinium no such sense?”
Pawn did not know what he meant—but he did know his Hive, so he replied slowly. Honestly.
“The Antinium have no honor. And I am—was a Worker. My life is for the Hive. If my death is required, I will die.”
For a long moment, Calruz stared at Pawn. Pawn held his gaze, wondering if the Minotaur would lash out at him. It had happened to several Workers before. But the Minotaur just snorted angrily and turned away.
“All that I should have expected from a slave.”
He stomped towards the door and flung it open. Erin crashed into his chest, and the Minotaur blinked at her.
“Pawn!”
She spotted the Antinium and froze. Pawn got to his feet and nodded at her.
“Erin. Is something wrong?”
Erin sagged, and some of the color returned to her pale face.
“You scared me! I thought you went back into the city—!”
“I was about to. I would not wish to trouble you—”
“No!”
Pawn was surprised by the vehemence in Erin’s statement. She grabbed him.
“You can’t go back! Not to that—that evil guy!”
“Ksmvr?”
“Yes!”
Erin nodded. She gestured towards her inn.
“That guy—I’m going to—well, I’d like to—what’s more important is that you stayhere. Not in that stupid Hive. I’ll make a bed for you, and you can stay as long as you like. Free of charge.”
Pawn stared at the inn and then at the two adventurers who’d followed Erin outside. He shook his head.
“Your offer is most kind. But I belong in my Hive.”
“What?”
His words seemed to shock the others. But Pawn was used to that. He tried to explain.
“I am missed. I must complete my duties.”
“But Ksmvr—”
The name made Pawn shudder, but only slightly.
“He will not harm me.”
“Bullshit.”
Pawn met Erin’s eyes steadily. He remembered her holding him. Remembered her strange warmth. The music was still in him.
“He will not harm me, Erin. He has determined that I am Individual. He will not question me further. And I will be protected there. Now that it is known I am Individual, I am—important.”
“Important?”
That seemed to surprise Erin. And her surprise surprised Pawn. How could she not realize? But he had learned how little others knew of the Antinium. But surely she understood this—
“I still don’t trust that Ksmvr guy. He’s dangerous.”
“He was merely fulfilling his duties. But once the Queen is told, she will summon me. I am sure of it.”
This didn’t seem to reassure Erin at all. She stared at Pawn anxiously, not seeming to understand the great honor this would be.
“The Queen? And where was she while he was stabbing you?”
“She is occupied at the moment. It is the Rite of Anastases.”
“The what thewhat?”
Pawn shrugged. It was a convenient gesture he had learned, shrugging. He noticed that the half-Elf was staring at him intently behind Erin as the Human and Minotaur talked.
“I do not know. I only heard what was spoken in passing. But it is an important ritual that cannot be interrupted. I…sense that.”
Erin stared at him. She did not understand, and Pawn worried that she would try to keep him. That would lead to conflict, and he could not allow her to be hurt. But the half-Elf spoke to him.
“You—ah, Pawn. Can you tell me something? What do the Antinium want?”
“To work for the Hive and the Queen.”
It was an automatic response, and not the one she wanted. Ceria shook her head.
“I’ve heard that from every Antinium—I mean, what do they wanthere? The Antinium have made war for two decades. They never leave their Hivelands—except during the last two great wars, and they only settled one Hive in one city in the entire world. The Blighted Kingdom hates them, and no one knows what your people want except to conquer. The Antinium are united as far as I’ve heard. Completely. You’re all loyal to your Queens. So…why did this Ksmvr take you and—and question you?”
More hard questions. Pawn tried to answer as best he could.
“We came ten years back. To make…make something. I do not know. I do not knowwhat. But it was decided. The Queens sent a single Hive to the city. Paid in gold for a place with those not of the Hive. To make something. A new kind of Antinium.”
It seemed Ceria and Calruz were listening hard to this, though making sense of it was beyond them and Erin. Ceria bit her lip.
“And this Rite of…does that relate to it?”
“No. Yes. It is important. I cannot tell you what it is. I was not told. I can onlysense that it requires all of my Queen’s attention.”
“But when she’s done with it, she’ll want to see you, is that right?”
“Yes.”
“And you’re important.”
“Yes.”
Easier answers. Pawn saw the light of comprehension in the half-Elf’s eyes. But Erin still did not understand. Pawn saw that too. But the half-Elf did. She tugged at Erin’s arm.
“I think I get it. Erin, Pawn needs to go back to his Hive. You can’t take an Antinium away from the Hive. If you do—they spare no effort to reclaim their lost. Or if it’s impossible to reclaim them, those Antinium die.”
Erin’s heart sank.
“They do?”
Only in times of war. Pawn knew with absolute certainty his Queen would never order him to die. He was too important. But the lie—
“That is correct. I would be in jeopardy or place you in danger by remaining.”
It hurt him to lie to Erin. But it was partially true. Once his Queen learned of his nature, she would spare no effort to reclaim him. And if Ksmvr tried to reclaim him and brought soldiers—
The thought of it was too much to bear. So Pawn lied. He lied to protect the one called Erin Solstice, the innkeeper who played chess and who sang. The one who had given him his individuality and more things than he could think. The one who was important. The one who the other Workers…
Admired. Perhaps that was the word for it. But Pawn thought it wasn’t the right word. What Erin was to the Workers was different. She had brought something into their stale lives and taught them that theyhad been living in boredom and monotony. She had elevated one of them, and so what the Workers felt for her was not admiration. It was something else. Another word.
But Pawn had no idea what that word was.
——
Pawn left. Ceria and Gerial left with him, and Calruz stomped off when he learned Erin was sick. They left her alone.
She felt bad about it. Upset that Pawn was leaving. Emotional. She threw a cup of water at Toren.
She hated being sick. And she was so tired—she’d barely gotten, what, a few hours of sleep? So Erin put her head down on her pillow in the kitchen. Just for a short nap. It was just a bit too much.
Before she knew it, she’d fallen asleep. All things considered, it was good for her. Erin was so tired, emotionally as well as physically, that nothing could rouse her. Not even Selys screaming when she saw Toren.
——
Pisces heard the scream and debated running. But the odds were quite good that there were adventurers still in the inn and therefore quite good that the screaming didn’t mean anythingtoo dangerous was happening.
Still, he cast [Invisibility] before he entered. It was a wonderful spell. A Tier 4 magic like this afforded him far more safety than any armor and allowed him a number of useful opportunities as well. It had been worth the month of study it had taken to master it.
Nevertheless, Pisces poked his head cautiously through the inn’s door. Safety was paramount. He would run at the slightest hint of trouble—
But curse it, Erin Solstice might be in trouble. And after last night, he couldn’t just abandon her. Not just because he’d heard what those arrogant Gnolls had said. They might be stealthy, but they relied on their noses too much. Pisces smelled exactly like the outdoors because he never bothered to wash. Another advantage.
And the music. He couldn’t forget the music. An [Immortal Moment] indeed. All of it meant—well, it meant—
It meant he was doing something stupid, which Pisces regretted. He readied several spells as he looked around the inn. If it was a monster, he’d attack and retreat. That was all he could do. More than he should do, really.
There was no monster in the inn. Not unless you counted the skeleton, and Pisces wasn’t afraid of his own creation. The cowering female Drake didn’t seem to share his opinion, however.
Pisces relaxed and let the invisibility spell end. His heart was beating far,far too fast. Curses. He recognized the Drake. She was a female receptionist at the Adventurer’s Guild, the one who often talked to Erin. Selys Shivertail.
She was still whimpering and trying to shield herself from Toren as the skeleton stood watching her. Pisces shook his head. Non-mages. They were so…
He looked around for Erin Solstice. She was nowhere to be seen, which was inconvenient. He had hoped for some food—
Pisces was used to wandering into the kitchen of the Wandering Inn for food. He’d done it quite often, and so it was quite a shock to him when Toren shot out a bony arm to block his way. He yelped and stumbled backwards.
“What are you doing?”
His creation studied Pisces. Toren didn’t reply—not that Pisces had given him the ability to speak. The mage paused and gestured with his fingers.
“Move aside. I require sustenance.”
A flicker of hesitation—and then the skeleton shook his head. Pisces frowned.
“I am your creator. Move aside.”
Another shake of the head. Pisces frowned darkly. This was wrong. But of course, he had expected complications when he’d created this skeleton. He just hadn’t expected the spell-weaving to interfere with the obedience of the skeleton—
“Move.”
The skeleton clattered its jaw at Pisces and raised a finger to shush him. He blinked at it.
“What are you—I, Pisces, order you to move aside and let me pass.”
Another shake of the head. Pisces ground his teeth. He was about to try something more drastic when somethingslapped the back of his head hard. He staggered and looked around.
“You!”
Something was attacking him. Pisces yelped as Selys advanced on him, hitting him with her fists.
“You’re the one who made this—thisthing, aren’t you? You evil, wretched—!”
Selys yelped as Toren caught her hand. She nearly screamed, but the other bony hand covered her mouth. Pisces froze. Was his creation going to—?
Toren held Selys in a grip of death. Very, very slowly he removed his hand from her mouth and raised it to his own. One finger went up, and heshushed her.
Selys quivered as she nodded. Toren gently let go of her hand. Then the skeleton pointed inside the kitchen.
Both Pisces and Selys stared inside the kitchen and saw Erin curled up into a ball, still sleeping somehow. They exchanged a look.
Toren moved back in front of the kitchen entrance and stood there, a sentinel. He stared pointedly at both mage and Drake. Slowly, the skeleton reached for a sword belted to its bony waist. It unsheathed the blade an inch. They backed away.
——
“Whatwas that?”
“It was my creation. A skeleton. It was merely guarding its master, Erin Solstice.”
“Youcreated that thing?”
Selys stared at Pisces, horrified. He raised his nose at her.
“Of course. It is a bodyguard for Erin and an able servant.”
“It’s an undeadmonster. And you—I thought you were just an [Illusionist] scaring poor people. But you’re that [Necromancer] Relc was talking about, aren’t you? Well, you leave Erin alone! She doesn’t need you bothering her!”
“I am a favored customer at her inn. I have every right to be there.”
“You had a bounty on your head until a week ago! You stay away from her or I’ll—I’ll—”
He sneered at her.
“You’ll do what? Hit me? I’m a mage.”
“AndI’m a receptionist at the Adventurer’s Guild. I’ll put a twenty-gold bounty on your head if you so much as raise an undead anywhere within twenty miles of the city.”
The sneer twisted upside down into a look of sudden concern.
“You—you don’t have the authority to do that.”
“Try me. And get out of my way!”
“I am going to the city. With Erin…indisposed, I require sustenance there.”
“Then walk behind me! I don’t want to be anywhere near you!”
“I am entitled to walk wherever I please. If it bothers you so much, you may wait.”
“You flesh-facedjerk—”
——
Rags watched curiously as the arguing Drake and mage stormed past her. They didn’t even notice her—not that she was practically visible in the long grass anyways. Her dark green skin camouflaged her well, and if she closed her eyes, she could practically disappear at times.
The other Goblins made her a bit more noticeable of course, but amazingly, Pisces and Selys had managed to miss them as well. And it washard to miss thirty-odd Goblins.
It didn’t matter much anyways; Rags shook her head and walked towards the inn. She snapped at the Goblins following her, and they dispersed into the grass while five waited outside the inn. As an escort, they were important, but the inn was a peaceful area. Besides, her scouts had already determined the inn was empty aside from the skeleton and Erin Solstice.
Thus, when Rags stepped into the inn, it was only Toren that saw her. Now free from the eyes of her followers, Rags took a moment to wince and feel at her side which was in complete agony. She chattered to herself as she prodded the huge bruise, but determined it wasn’t worth wasting a valuable healing potion over.
The skeleton took little heed of the Goblin except to assess how dangerous she might be. It noticed her frowning as she searched for Erin Solstice and mentally sighed again.
——
Refreshingly, Rags understood that Erin was sleeping andnot to be disturbed quickest of all the inn’s guests that day. The small Goblin wasn’t happy, but Toren didn’t have to dissuade her from entering the kitchen.
Instead, the Goblin hopped up onto one of the chairs and grabbed a chess board. She muttered to herself as Toren stood patiently in his place in front of the kitchen. He stared impassively at the Goblin as she ignored him.
Perhaps someone who wasn’t an undead skeleton might have had a bit more of a reaction to Rags’ appearance. They might have questioned the cuts on the side of her face, the way she winced as she moved, or perhaps the glowing, orange-pink potion strapped to her belt. It was one of many valuable items that an astute watcher could infer had been looted from travellers.
But Toren wasn’t interested in any of that. Instead, the skeleton was troubled by his own thoughts. He was guarding his master, and that was well. But he had failed to guard a few days ago. He had lost to the Antinium, and that was wrong. Bad. He felt this should not be so.
But he was still only a Level 3 [Skeleton Warrior]. He had no way to level except in the [Barmaid] class, and Toren felt that this would not be particularly helpful.
Rags muttered to herself as she began playing a game of chess. Without any opponent, she was forced to play both sides, which she was not happy about. She groused to herself in her own language.
Again, to any other listener, her words would be meaningless nonsense. The language of the Goblins was scratchy, garbled, and sounded vaguely like rocks being tossed into a blender. In short, incomprehensible to anyone who was not a Goblin.
But the dead spoke a universal language, so Toren understood her perfectly. He listened, at first mainly because he had no choice, but then with increasing fascination. He was fascinated by Rags’ comments about the [Strategist] class and chess and stared at the chess board.
The Goblin played one game by herself and then two. After she won and lost the third game, she looked up and nearly tumbled out of her seat.
Toren stood silently over her, staring down. Rags unsheathed her short sword, but the skeleton made no move to attack. It stared down at the chess board and then slowly sat across from Rags.
With mechanical precision, it began moving chess pieces to their starting positions. As Rags, disbelieving, watched, Toren chose a pawn and moved it forwards on the chess board.
She stared at the undead skeleton. Its fiery blue eyes fixed on her. Slowly, Rags got back onto her chair and stared at the board. She stared at the skeleton. Then she shrugged.
And began to play.
——
Ceria and Gerial walked through the streets of Liscor, taking in this unfamiliar city. They were walking down a street filled with restaurants and pubs. They were being watched.
Gazi’s eye flicked around the street, and she smiled as she walked forwards. Relc was headed straight for the leader of the Horns of Hammerad several streets over. The [Princess] was crouched at another table, under the cloak of an [Invisibility] spell, but she would not interfere.
The man was an average adventurer. Level 17 in the [Warrior] class—without much to distinguish him. But the half-Elf was as noticeable as the Minotaur. She could only be Ceria Springwalker, member of the Horns of Hammerad.
Just the ones Gazi had been looking for.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T06:53:58)
A [Princess] just chilling under a table. As you do. Nothing to see here.
Except typos. Leave your typos here.
DAK (2023-03-13T23:27:13)
“They didn’t even notice her—not that she was practically visible in the long grass anyways.”
It works as is, though reads clunky. I wonder if ‘Practically’ is supposed to be ‘Particularly’, though.
Sam (2023-03-24T10:34:59)
But the odds were quite good that there were adventurers still in the inn and therefore quite good that the screaming didn’t mean anythingtoo dangerous was happening.
This sentence doesn’t make any sense
greycat (2023-07-23T23:29:20)
Rags didn’t steal Ryoka’s potion in the original, did she?  I’m pretty sure that’s new in the rewrite.
Toni (2023-12-02T14:05:58)
Ha, of course it’s the speed potion that was taken. Starting to get real restless with all these close calls of Ryoka and Erin meeting

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.54
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-54/

Erin woke up to the noise that defined her life.
The sounds of chess.
It was a soft sound, most of the time—one she’d learned in all of its subtleties. Chess sounded different.
The board mattered, for one thing. Erin usually played with wooden pieces—the ones from the DGT electronic chess board manufacturing line. It was the board chess tournaments used because of the sensors and electronic timer wired into the board itself.
It even had a chess computer you could buy to play against. It was high-tech, and Erin didn’t like it.
She loved the sound and feel of stone pieces, like the one she’d bought for her inn and had in her personal collection in her home. Her home in the real world, her world, that was.
How seldom she thought of it. And her parents. It was almost as if…unless she thought, she forgot they had ever been. Was she just blocking them out as a self-defense reflex? It hurt Erin, wondering what they were doing and thinking, looking for her, worrying.
But today was a day for feeling pain.And she indulged her own worry, wishing she could tell them—anything—until the sounds drew her upwards.
The soft clicking of stone on stone roused Erin gently. She sat up and reached for the rag she’d left near her head and blew her nose.
Of course, stone chess sets were a lot more fragile, and it was inevitable that someone would drop a piece sooner or later. That was why she only brought it out if she was playing someone who held the same reverence for chess as she did.
Yes—the rhythm told her other things, too. This was a slower chess game because one player was worse than the other. You could almost feel it. One of the two players was decisive, confident, and skilled enough to back up their abilities. They moved almost as soon as the other player did. But the other one paused and hesitated.
Different sounds for different players. Erin remembered the sound of cheap plastic being slammed down by impatient players, ones who grew angry when they were losing and excited over small gains. Bad players? Young players. Amateurs.
Professional chess players got mad too, but in different ways. Sometimes they got loud, but many went cold and focused everything in a silent battle. You could almost tell when a game was getting good, yes. Not by the noise—
But by the silence.
But in this case, the game wasn’t good. Erin could tell that in the moment she walked out of the kitchen, rubbing the sleep from her eyes.
Rags sat in front of a chess board, arms crossed while she stared at the skeleton sitting opposite her. Erin stared too. Toren’s presence threw her, but the chess—the chess was easy to understand.
It was a bad game. A very bad game. Rags had nearly all of her pieces—including her pawns—and Toren’s pieces were scattered.
Contrary to what people thought, a one-sided game wasn’t fun. Winning against an inferior opponent wasn’t fun.
Erin said as much after Rags effortlessly checkmated Toren’s king. Both Goblin and skeleton turned.
“I don’t know how you got him to play, but he clearly doesn’t knowhow to play.”
Rags shrugged indifferently as Toren sprang to his feet. Erin sighed. Her skeleton was playing chess. At this point, she wasn’t surprised.
“Sit down.”
Toren sat. Erin pulled a chair over and slumped down on the table, resting her chin on her arms. She stared at Rags. The Goblin was busy rearranging her side, probably in expectation of playing Erin.
The small Goblin looked—battered. Was she hurt? If she was, she didn’t show it.
“How many games did you play?”
Rags paused and thought. She held up both hands with all five fingers splayed out. Then she kicked Toren. The skeleton held out its fingers too, keeping two down.
“Eighteen games? That’s a lot. And how many did he win?”
Rags grinned. Erin snorted, but in some sympathy for the skeleton as it sat there.
“That’s what I thought.”
Then again, there were always a few players who relished beating down amateurs. Especially kids. Erin had been one of the whiz-kids, the child prodigies of chess growing up. She’d known a few kids her age that positively enjoyed bullying adults.
She, uh…Erin had to admit that a younger girl-Erin might have been one of those children at times. But she’d grown out of it. She thought she had.
It was a sign of immaturity. Erin frowned at Rags, and the little Goblin looked away, scowling. How old was she? How old was she in Goblin years?
“You should at least teach him how to play. Here.”
Erin pointed to another chess board, and Toren went to fetch it. Mechanically, she set up her side on both the boards facing her.
“I’ll teach you and get revenge, deal?”
The skeleton said nothing. But it sat obediently opposite Erin as Rags frowned at her board and carefully moved the knight forwards.
“It’s all about positioning, see? I don’t know if you saw me playing chess, but it’s a bit different than everyone thinks.”
Erin casually moved a piece on Rags’ board and then showed Toren.
“See this central area? Most openings or chess strategies revolve around capturing or controlling this spot. And that’s because your pieces need to move to get in position to attack the enemy. It’s not always about just killing other pieces. It’s about proper setup and luring the enemy into traps.”
She played a few moves with Toren, watching and commenting as the skeleton moved.
“Everyone—well, everyone where I come from—knows the basic openings. You have to if you want to play chess. But chess is as much about reading the opponent as it is setting up your board. You trick them, open holes in their defenses. There’s all kinds of ways to do that. Forks, pins, deflection, checks, skewers, batteries…”
She began chattering away, a chess enthusiast unloading on a hapless victim. Toren absorbed it all like a sponge as she played a very light game against him, letting the skeleton learn as it lost.
Rags muttered as she lost her queen. Erin pointed to Toren as he tried to move his king and shook her head.
“I’ll let you take that one back. Try not to move the king so much. You can castle him to move if you have to, but he shouldn’t be the piece you keep moving. That’s usually a bad sign.”
She smiled, nostalgia gripping her. She’d had to learn that the hard way, too.
“I know you want to because he’s so important and you want to keep him safe, but you do that with other pieces. They’re the king’s shield and sword. Yeah, you don’t move the king. Because—”
A flicker of memory. The words came out of Erin automatically.
“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”
Rags and Toren stared at Erin. She blinked. That was it. Sheremembered.
“Oh. Um. That was a little rhyme I made up when I was a kid. It—it’s important.”
It felt that way, but Erin couldn’t remember why. It was just a silly thing she’d made up. But—
“Where was I?”
She stared at the board and found she had a way to checkmate Toren. She showed him it and then glanced at the fuming Rags.
“Why don’t you try again? You’ll probably lose, but—”
Erin stared at Toren. It—he—it was an undead creature. Who knew how fast they could learn? It wasn’t as if he had a bad memory—he didn’t have a brain. Erin was suddenly gripped by curiosity, probably just as Rags had been. She wanted to see Toren play.
Carefully, she showed Toren a few classic openings and played slowly through another game as she crushed Rags again. Then she set up a board for the Goblin and skeleton and sat back.
“Do you get it? Let’s see.”
Rags and Erin waited. After a moment, Toren moved a piece. Rags countered. The game lasted for about sixteen more moves before she checkmated him.
“You don’t get it.”
Toren clattered his jaw. Erin sighed.
“Don’t try taking your rook out so quickly. Remember—capture the center at the start and reinforce. Try again.”
He did. Two games later, Erin had to face facts.
“Great. My undead skeleton sucks at chess.”
It wasn’t that he wasbad, it was just—
Okay, he was bad. Erin saw it as she played Rags and Toren at the same time. He was just an amateur.
Which was totally fine. But it was a marked contrast from the Antinium and Rags. The Workers might have been inexperienced, but they were fast learners who memorized openings and counters with ease. And Rags was gifted.
Compared to that, Toren was just normal. Not hopeless—she could see his game had improved from the travesty it had been before her coaching. It was just that he had no spark.
Erin sighed. She took one of Rags’ knights and ignored the little Goblin hissing in anger.
“Check.”
It was a shame. But there was something in her that was still happy. Even if her skeleton sucked, he was still playing chess. Even if she was sitting in another world, in an inn playing against a Goblin, she was still playing chess.
That was good. It made her feel at ease. It was the only thing that made her feel happy, really. Because it was the only thing she was good at. It was the only thing she knew how to do.
——
Ceria and Gerial walked through the city, talking. They were alone. Alone in a sea of Drakes and Gnolls and the occasional Antinium.
They were outsiders. But then, adventurers were always outsiders. They were used to it.
And perhaps if it had been another week, another place, they would have been laughing, joking, and exploring a new city. But this was different. They walked and talked seriously, ignoring the hostile looks they got from the locals.
It was easy to be swept away in the inn they’d found. It was a soothing place, and far enough away that they could relax. But here, in the city, they were too close. The Ruins were several miles away from the city, but they might as well have been next to the adventurers. Their nerves hummed, and their hearts beat a little faster in anticipation of what was coming.
“Soon.”
Ceria nodded. She touched the knife at her belt and felt the hidden wand strapped to her arm.
“Rot, I wish it were tomorrow. No wonder the other adventurers wanted to stay at the inn. I can’t relax at all, here.”
Gerial nodded. He stepped aside politely for a female Drake and ignored her as she flicked her tongue out at him.
“The, ah, local reception isn’t helping either.”
“Well, what do you expect? They don’t exactly like Humans down here, and I’m just another annoying adventurer. But that’s not what I’m talking about. You can feel it, can’t you?”
He could. Gerial was a veteran adventurer, and he sensed the same thing Ceria was tapping into. There was an undercurrent among the adventurers in the city. Fear—as well as expectation.
The Ruins of Liscor were a huge find, possibly the biggest in a decade. Untold and unplundered treasures were just waiting for the taking, the kind of rewards that could elevate any adventuring group into Gold-rank—or higher. But by the same token, the dangers were just as unknown.
“We still don’t know what’s down there. Cervial found someone who was willing to explore and map out the first level, but no one is willing to go any further.”
“And he hasn’t found anyone who’s ventured further?”
“No one who’s gone down too far past the stairs has ever come back.”
Gerial tugged at his belt unconsciously. His hand touched the pommel of his sword and then moved away as a Gnoll guardsman glanced at him.
That was it. That was the fear. Something was down there, and whatever it was, it was deadly. So much so that the treasure-lust of the other adventurers was being kept at bay.
What might be hiding down there? A bagrhaven? A nest of them, perhaps. But something that could kill a team of Silver-ranks without letting any of them live—
A trap? A colony of wurms? Some—some kind of undead army? Or—Gerial’s blood ran cold at the thought—had they dug up the burial site of one of the Old Things?
No. No, there was no sense in thinking of it. But thatwas the thing. Uncertainty was keeping these adventurers at bay. Once they knew what was down there, those who could take on the threat would band together and deal with it in a heartbeat. Adventurers would swarm over the ruins, stealing, fighting each other, trying to grab as much as possible.
All it took was the first, brave group who would uncover the secrets below and pay with blood. And for once, it was the Horns of Hammerad who would be paying that price.
“Hey.”
Gerial blinked and jerked in surprise as the elbow caught him in the side. He glanced down at Ceria and saw she was staring up at him.
“Don’t go panicking on me, now. We’ll be fine, so stop worrying.”
He smiled, but Ceria’s jab had brought him back into reality. Casually, he rubbed at the spot she’d hit, wondering if he’d have a bruise.
“Someone has to worry. As far as our leader is concerned, this is going to be a simple extermination request, nothing more.”
Ceria made a face.
“Calruz is arrogant. But he’s confident and bold, which is why he’s perfect for a vice-Captain like you.”
Gerial felt the statement should have been reversed, but he smiled at the compliment anyways. Then he frowned.
“The [Illumination] spell. How’s it going?”
Ceria shrugged.
“My mastery of it is—incomplete. I’ll keep studying, but my best guess is that I’ll be able to cast it once and then I’ll need a mana potion. It’s too exhausting to use multiple times in a row.”
“Once should be enough. Just so we have an area permanently lit to fall back to.”
“We’ve got the formations worked out. Stop—”
“Yes, yes. And supplies are underway. It’s just—”
“I know.”
Ceria patted Gerial on the shoulder.
“I know, believe me. I’m feeling it too. But we’ve planned for as much as we can, and we’ll pull out the instant there’s trouble. Don’t worry.”
He smiled at her. It was reassuring to have someone as old as Ceria in the group with him. She was over sixty years old, and if she hadn’t spent all that time adventuring, he was still glad she was here. In truth, he felt it was she who should be the vice-Captain, but she’d always refused.
Mainly because she didn’t want to do all the logistical work.
Their talk turned to lighter things. Neither Gerial nor Ceria were new to adventuring or the risks of exploring dungeons. Gerial had been an adventurer for eight years—Ceria for fourteen.
“Say we do get gold and gems rather than a magical item. We have the largest shares after the Captains. What would you buy?”
Ceria smiled and eyed a few carved bracelets on display in a Gnoll’s shop. The large Gnoll woman eyed the half-Elf and bared her teeth politely, gesturing in an invitation. Ceria waved her hand, and they continued on.
“If I have enough, I’d like to buy another spell book. All the ones I have I’ve more or less mastered. With enough gold—a few hundred pieces more—I could buy a book with a few Tier 4 spells.”
“Just that? If the reward is all Calruz thinks it could be, you’d have a lot more money than that.”
Ceria raised an eyebrow at Gerial.
“You’ve never bought spell books, have you? Just one costs several hundred gold or thousands, and that’s for low-Tier spells. I’ve been saving up all this time just to buy one with a Tier 4 spell.”
“But if you leveled up your, um, [Mage] class, you’d learn those anyways, right?”
The half-Elf ran a hand through her hair distractedly. It was messy because she didn’t always comb it, and he resisted the urge to offer her his comb.
“Right, but—it’s complicated. There’s no guarantee which spells I’d learn, and besides, I’d need to level up quite a bit. But with a spell book, I could study a spell and learn it in a few months.”
“A few months?”
“A month, a year, two years—so what? If I mastered just one good spell, my Level would increase. And then we could take on stronger monsters.”
Gerial shook his head.
“A good thing I was never born with a talent for magic. I don’t have your patience—or your time.”
“Oh, and then what would you buy?”
“Armor. And a good sword. Or maybe just a magic ring.”
Ceria laughed.
“Not too adventurous, are you?”
Gerial smiled as he shook his head, a warrior talking to a mage.
“A good set of magic armor? I’d be able to fight without worrying about some monster clubbing my helmet in every five seconds.”
“I suppose. It just seems like a waste, that’s all.”
“Every bit counts. If I had good armor, I could worry about other expenses. But that’s the first step.”
“True enough.”
Money. It was such a simple thing. But it was the bane of an adventurer’s existence. They earned more than skilled workers, but to keep adventuring, they needed more. The Guild had its own fees for enrollment, armor repairs and healing potions wereexpensive, and an injury could leave one out of work for months. It was so hard to earn money.
“A good sword.”
Gerial murmured into his mustache.
“If I had that, I could polish my sword skills. Rank up. Start earning a Gold-rank adventurer’s pay…”
“And then perhaps you’d be able to talk to a certain Runner without needing me to push you, hm?”
Gerial turned red.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“Of course you don’t. You Human—no, you males. Idiots who fall in love with the first exotic female you see. You and Calruz both.”
Gerial took the ribbing with good humor, although he didn’t point out that the first exotic female he’d ever laid eyes on was Ceria. It would have made the half-Elf blush and then retreat. Or—worse—engage and discuss the matter frankly. He had learned long ago that her heart had been closed long ago to Human men.
Nevertheless, he was quite glad when he spotted a familiar face sitting at an outdoor stall, eating pieces of roasted meat off of a skewer.
“Sostrom!”
The mage looked up and grinned around a mouthful of food as Gerial and Ceria sat to join him. They ordered a skewer of their own as the Drake shopkeeper rotated the sticks of meat over a fire.
“I saw you two had already left. The innkeeper—Miss Solstice was sick, so we all took our leave without breakfast.”
Gerial nodded. He’d had a late breakfast with Ceria, but his appetite returned quickly as he inhaled the scents of roasted animal.
“Have you seen Calruz?”
“Not since last night. Why?”
“He left the inn, and he hasn’t slept since last night, I think. You know what he’s like when he’s irritable.”
Sostrom made a face.
“Let the Watch deal with him. I don’t get paid to restrain him when he causes trouble.”
“If he gets arrested before we enter the Ruins—”
“The city will let him go if we pay a fine. And they’ll be happier to let him fight monsters than cause trouble in jail.”
There was truth in that statement, so Gerial let it go. He twisted around to look towards the gates where the inn lay.
“So. A strange [Innkeeper] we’ve met. I’ve never met stranger, have you?”
The half-Elf frowned.
“…A few that are weird. I heard there’s a former Gold-rank [Innkeeper] up north. Terrible fellow. Sometimes they’re characters, but yes, she beats the lot for originality. But it seems we’ve run across more than one strange girl as of late.”
“Ryoka.”
Gerial accepted a stick of meat and handed over coins for both him and Ceria. He bit into the hot meat and glanced at Ceria.
“What Yvlon said the other day. You’re sure she has no levels?”
Ceria shrugged.
“That’s what Cervial said. And Yvlon seemed to know something about her as well.”
“The entire incident was unfortunate.”
“It was her fault.”
“Perhaps, but Yvlon needn’t have challenged her. That wasn’t a fair fight no matter how you look at it.”
That was true. Gerial looked at Sostrom.
“You’re right. I’d forgotten because she won, but since when do the Silver Spears fight civilians?”
“Let alone in armor. Even if it was bravado, Yvlon would have never taken that fight normally. Makes you wonder, don’t it? What Yvlon knew. Or—what her aunt told her.”
Gerial and Ceria exchanged a quick glance. Gerial whistled long and low under his breath.
“Lady Magnolia.”
Sostrom nodded.
“There’s a name that tells you how important she is.”
Gerial scratched at his chin as he glanced at the Human [Mage] for clarification.
“Yvlon important? Or Ryoka important?”
“Ryoka. I hear Yvlon doesn’t lean on her family connections or even her brother, who’s also aGold-rank adventurer. But Ryoka has Lady Reinhart following her every move.”
The Human [Mage] nodded again for emphasis. He scratched at his forehead under his pointy hat. Sostrom was completely bald, and as such, wore his mage’s hat whenever possible.
“That object I repaired, her fist-fighting skill. Her lack of levels…it’s enough to interest me, but why a scion of the Five Families? There’s something else to her, mark my words.”
“I hope she doesn’t do anything rash.”
Ceria snorted into her food. Gerial made a face.
“You know what I mean.”
“Just hope she survives. Once we’re done here, we can ask her more questions.”
“It could be a while if these ruins are as deep as they seem.”
“She’s a big Human. She’ll be fine.”
“Well, since we’re on the topic of secrets…what’s the story behind you and this Pisces character? I thought I saw him last night, but you two hardly shared a word.”
“That was intentional. I get a headache whenever I have to talk to that idiot for too long.”
Ceria sighed, but Sostrom frowned.
“You might make fun of him, but heis a graduate of Wistram when all is said and done. And that display with healing Ryoka’s leg was nothing short of phenomenal. I certainly wouldn’t want to test myself against him.”
Gerial blinked at Sostrom. While Sostrom was the lower-level and self-trained [Mage] in the Horns of Hammerad compared to Ceria, Gerial had still grown to appreciate his ability. He couldn’t cast [Fireball], but he had a lot of good tricks and Ceria respected him. That was high praise.
“This Pisces is that good of a mage?”
Sostrom nodded seriously.
“I sensed it. He has quite a few levels on me, I suspect. Perhaps the same as our Ceria?”
Both men looked over. Ceria scowled and shrugged.
“Maybe. But he’s still an idiot.”
“An idiot from Wistram.”
“He’s not…well, technically he’s a graduate. But some mages wouldn’t consider him one.”
“Wait. You said—”
The half-Elf looked unusually defensive. She began speaking faster, hunching her shoulders, and Gerial knew she rarely talked about her past—her upbringing, yes. Not Wistram.
“He was expelled. But you’re right. He was always at the head of his class whenever he showed up. If he had the money, he could have advanced quite highly. But he dropped out about the same time I, uh, ran out of funds.”
“And he was expelled for his experiments. Yes, I recall. But does he have any combat aptitude? We could hire him for the expedition.”
Ceria glanced incredulously up at Gerial.
“I wouldn’t trust that idiot with my back.”
“Aren’t you being a little too harsh?”
“No.”
“But what’s his level? A mage living alone like he is has to have some skills. And a [Necromancer] would be perfect if there’s a large amount of undead in the ruins. Come on, Ceria, at least tell us his classes.”
Ceria made a face.
“I—oh, alright. As far as I can remember, he has the most levels in the [Necromancer] class, but he knows quite a few mundane spells too. Hemight be Level 20+ just as a pure [Mage] if you want to rank him. And he knows at least one Tier 4 spell. He was always good at—”
“Excuse me.”
All three adventurers turned. Gerial and Sostrom blinked as they stared into one very large eye and a slight smile. Ceria dropped her half-eaten skewer of meat.
Gazi Pathseeker smiled politely at the three adventurers and bowed her head slightly.
“Greetings. I hope I’m not interrupting?”
There was a brief moment of assessment that Gerial and Sostrom went through. Their eyes noted the quality of Gazi’s armor. Unlike pedestrians, the brown and rust-red color of her equipment didn’t fool their eyes. Her armor was clearly high-quality, and her sword made the two adventurers look twice.
That would have already told them she was Gold-rank or higher. But Gazi wore no armband or markings to indicate her rank. That either meant she was unaffiliated with the Guild or—
Gerial cleared his throat and stood up from his seat. He tried not to stammer.
“Um, pardon me. But you wouldn’t happen to be…?”
“I am Gazi.”
They had never seen her face, but both men had heard her name. Instantly, Sostrom was out of his seat and offering her his while Gazi politely refused. Ceria was still staring.
When Gerial had calmed down slightly, he tried to be as accommodating as possible.
“Um, how can we help you Miss, ah—Adventurer Pathseeker?”
She smiled at Gerial. He felt a shock as her eye met his. In his stunned state, Gerial briefly wished Ceria would stop staring and be more respectful.
“You are members of the Horns of Hammerad, aren’t you?”
“Um yes, I mean, that’s correct. We are. All of us.”
“That is good.”
Gazi smiled again. It wasn’t a broad smile—rather, a mysterious small one that fit her perfectly. She nodded.
“I wished to speak with you.”
Gerial and Sostrom were agog.
“With us? You know our names?”
“Is it not appropriate? The Horns of Hammerad are well known in the cities around here.”
That was enough to inflate both men’s chests. Gazi’s eye flicked towards Ceria for a brief moment as she continued speaking.
“I have visited several Human cities to the north. And strangely, come back here chasing rumors. I hoped you could assist me.”
“Anything.”
Gerial breathed the words. The smile he got made his stomach jump.
“I have heard—from several sources—of a most extraordinary Human female in this area. A Runner. I believe her name is Ryoka Griffin. A levelless girl who braved the High Passes and survived. A most…interesting person in short. And I am told the Horns of Hammerad are her acquaintances.”
Gerial and Sostrom exchanged a glance. How much of a coincidence could it be? Gerial vaguely noticed Ceria coming to stand next to him.
“We do—we do know that girl! We were in her company only two days ago.”
Gazi’s smile widened.
“Ah. So you know her. Good. Tell me, is she all that people say she is?”
“That and more.”
Sostrom nodded eagerly. Gerial glared, but the bald mage had beaten him to the punch.
“She—well, I don’t know that she’s levelless, but another adventurer with [Appraisal] says it’s true. And shedid survive the High Passes. And she has the favor of Lady Magnolia. And she runs barefoot.”
“Indeed? How fascinating. I should very much like to meet her. You wouldn’t happen to know where she is by any chance?”
Gerial and Sostrom both opened their mouths, but incredibly, it was Ceria who beat both of them.
“We don’t, I’m afraid. She moves around all the time, so it’s hard to pin her down.”
Gerial felt something on his foot and looked down. Ceria had stepped on his foot for some reason. And Sostrom’s as well. Why? He glanced at Sostrom and saw the other man was blinking and touching at his head.
But Gazi was looking at Gerial, and suddenly, his attention was focused completely on her.
“Ah, but I would dearly like to meet her. Would you happen to know where she stays?”
“Celum. There’s an inn she stays at quite often there, and she takes most of her requests there.”
Ceria stepped on his foot again. Gerial glanced at her, irritated. She mouthed something but then Gazi was speaking.
“Which inn?”
“The Bloody Tankard.”
This time, Ceria abandoned all pretense and jabbed Gerialhard in the side. He winced and looked down at her, confused.
Ceria sighed and shoved Gerial back. Sostrom interposed himself between the vice-Captain and Gazi, averting his gaze from Gazi’s eye. So did Ceria. She spoke to the air just over Gazi’s shoulder.
“Excuse me, Miss Gazi. But why the interest in Ryoka?”
Gazi’s eye shifted towards Ceria, but the half-Elf refused to meet her gaze.
“I would simply like to meet her.”
Her eye focused on Ceria, and Gazi’s slight smile grew a fraction. Ceria bit the inside of her lip until it bled.
“Well, you have the name of her inn. And we haven’t seen her. So if that’s all—”
“She was in Esthelm just two days ago!”
Ceria cursed and whirled to glare at Gerial. Behind her, she heard Gazi chuckle.
“And do you have any way of finding her now? Or perhaps you know where she’s going?”
“We do not.”
Ceria cut Gerial off. She glared at Gazi, focusing hard, channeling mana into her eyes as a shield.
“We don’t know anything else. So stop asking. We would like to be left in peace.”
Gazi was still smiling.
“But I have more questions to ask about Ryoka. And I feel you can answer them.”
“I’ve got nothing for you. So you can take your answers and shove them.”
Gazi blinked. Ceria gasped as the pressure on her vanished. The half-Gazer looked disappointed.
“Hm. You would not answer questions for me? I am a Named Adventurer, you know. And you are, ah, yes, Silver-rank. Tradition would dictate you help me to the best of your abilities.”
Ceria snapped at Gazi.
“I know who you are. And a former soldier isn’t the same as a true adventurer. We got our levels from fighting monsters, not killing people.”
“But I am still higher rank than you. I could be…troublesome to you if you refuse to help.”
“I don’t help the insane. You and your mad king can go to hell for all I care—”
Gazi didn’t so much move asblur. One moment she was smiling, posture relaxed, talking calmly to Ceria. The next, the edge of her sword was suddenly at Ceria’s throat. And she was no longer smiling.
“I do not suffer insults to my lord’s name.”
It took a second for the two men behind Ceria to react. When they did, Gerial swore and went for his sword and Sostrom reached for his wand. But they both froze as Gazi poked the tip of the razor sharp blade a bit further into Ceria’s neck.
“How inconvenient. And we were doing so well with politeness. But I will have an answer. But first—an apology. I will hear it from you on your knees, half-Elf.”
Ceria was sweating. The blade was not pricking her throat, but lodged into her skin. She was already bleeding. If it went in just another inch—
Perhaps it was because it had been so quick. Gazi hadn’t attracted attention when she’d drawn her sword because she’d moved so fast no one had seen it leave her sheath. But it was hard to ignore a drawn blade at the throat of a half-Elf in the middle of the street.
People began noticing the standoff and panicking in the course of a few moments. Within seconds, the pedestrians cleared out, and the adventurers could hear someone calling the Watch.
They were using a high-pitched whistle, which gave off a shrill whine that was impossible to ignore. Gazi didn’t lower her sword, though one of her smaller eyes rolled around in her head. Neither Gerial nor Sostrom moved either, and Ceria was already on her tiptoes. They knew how fast the Watch would react and didn’t panic.
The filthy girl hiding behind the stall was no seasoned adventurer, however, and she heard the whistle and thought it was for her. She rushed out from behind the shopkeeper’s stall, appearing in the street as her [Invisibility] spell failed.
Ceria was afraid to turn her head, but Sostrom and Gerial saw a blonde head of hair, filthy travelling clothes, pale skin, and the flash of magic. The girl raised an emerald ring, shouted something as she pointed at the adventurers, and then fled.
From her ring, a huge, thick tendril of what looked like spider web shot out, growing larger and spreading out. It flew at the adventurers like a bird.
Gerial and Sostrom had seen the spell, and they were already diving for the ground. The cobwebs struck their backs and stuck to them, instantly anchoring them with tendrils of silk as strong as stone.
Ceria could do nothing but watch as the spider webs flew at her. They wrapped around her, and she fell to the ground, instantly cocooned. Gazi’s blade would have cut her—but the Gazer moved it out of the way just in time.
Gazi eyed the unfurling spider web and flicked her sword twice. The tendrils of webbing fell at her feet, neatly severed.
Gazitsked in irritation and glanced around as the piercing whine continued.
The girl with the magic was nowhere to be seen. She’d already fled down an alleyway.
“How inconvenient. I suppose I must ask my questions another time.”
She looked down at Ceria, and the half-Gazer’s eyes were hard.
“But make no mistake. Ishall see you again and ask more questions. Unless of course I find this Ryoka Griffin first.”
She smiled then, her slight, mysterious smile.
“Farewell.”
Gazi turned and strode off. Her legs were a blur as she disappeared into an alleyway.
“Damnation!”
Gerial cursed as he fought the webs. But they had anchored him to the ground.
“What kind of magical artifact was that? Sostrom, I’m pinned. Can you—?”
“My wand is caught!”
The Human [Mage] cursed and fought to tear his wand free of the webbing. Lying helpless on the ground, Ceria gulped a few times. It didn’tfeel like her throat was perforated.
“[Flashfire].”
The thick webbing burned off of Ceria in an instant, giving off thick, billowing clouds of smoke. She yelped and cursed as the fire burned her. But in moments, the webbing was gone.
She stood up and unsheathed her belt dagger. Ceria ran to Gerial and Sostrom, working her blade into the webbing. It stuck.
She pulled the dagger away and pointed at it. A stream of fire burst from her fingers and engulfed the blade, turning it red-hot. Ceria began cutting again, and the webbing fell away.
Gerial yelped as the heated blade burned him, but Ceria yanked him to his feet.
“Complain later. Let’s go! If the Watch catches us—”
All three adventurers exchanged a look. They looked around the street. Sostrom pointed to an alleyway, and they ran as the Watch arrived on the scene, led by an irate Drake with a spear.
——
“We were under a spell?”
Ceria nodded as she, Sostrom, and Gerial walked back towards the inn. She winced with every step. Her skin was red and burned along her entire body. Only where her enchanted robes had covered her was her skin whole.
Sostrom fished out a potion and handed it to her as they walked. None of the adventurers slowed down, though. The commotion hadn’t spread to the rest of the city, but they had no desire to get on the wrong side of the Watch.
“Yeah. She was casting a [Charm] spell with her eye. It hit both of you the instant you looked at her. I barely blocked it.”
“But she was only looking at us.”
“Gazers can cast spells as easily as looking. A half-Gazer can do the same, it seems.”
“A half-Gazer? Is that what she was?”
Ceria glanced sideways at Gerial. The man was still pale from their encounter—and the magic that had worn off on him.
“You didn’t know she was half-Gazer? Seriously, Gerial?”
“I only know the basics. She’s a Named-rank.And she served the King of Destruction. What more do you need from me?”
He felt that covered everything you needed to ever know about Gazi. Ceria muttered darkly to herself as she rubbed the ointment over her burns.
“There’s a lot more to it than that, Gerial. She’s one of the Seven—and she was famous for killing every single [Spy], [Assassin], [Saboteur], and [Rogue] she ever ran into during his wars. Of all of them, she could be called the scariest. Let’s get something to drink back at the inn. I’ll tell you all about it as soon as we get clear of the area.”
“Tell us now. If she’s after us—”
“Not us. She wants Ryoka, and I don’t know why. Possibly the same reason Magnolia is interested in her, but that’s just a guess. It spells trouble, and we need to let everyone know as soon as possible.”
“Give us the details on Gazi before we get there. How strong is she? Where does she come from?”
This came from Sostrom, and Gerial was so amazed that the [Mage] didn’t know…
But Ceria nodded. They were all on different pages, so she decided to start from the beginning. She took a deep breath as she walked. The pain from her burns was easing, but she was still shaky. But an adventurer was calm or she was dead. So she collected her thoughts and spoke.
“I’ll tell you two from the beginning so we’re not making mistakes in the future. Right. Sostrom, do you know about the desert continent south or maybe south-west of here? Chandrar?”
“Too basic, Ceria.”
“Okay, okay. It’s huge, but there are several kingdoms to note. Like Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the largest Stitch-folk kingdom in the world. But there’s one that you definitely heard about—even if you don’t know Gazi. Everyone knew that kingdom, once. In one of them sleeps a king…”
——
“Good evening, Erin.”
Erin blinked at Gazi.
“Oh hi, Gazi. What’s up?”
Gazi smiled at Erin. She didn’t come in, although Erin held the door open for her.
“I won’t trespass here long. I just wished to tell you I will be travelling from this city for a while.”
“Oh?”
“I have business to attend to elsewhere. I just wished to know if you planned on travelling anywhere in the coming weeks.”
Erin blinked. Some people were strange. Gazi appeared on her doorstep and asked—she was staring quite hard at Erin with her huge eye. But maybe that was just how half-Gazers were.
“Nah. I’m not going anywhere in a hurry. Why?”
Gazi studied her with her central eye and then smiled.
“I was just curious. I would greatly enjoy having another meal here at a later date, and I would not wish for you to leave before then.”
Erin laughed.
“No chance of that, I’m afraid.”
“Well then. Until we meet again.”
Gazi stepped back, smiling. Erin stared at her, nonplussed. Gazi turned and paused. Someone was in her way.
“Excuse me.”
Calruz blinked down at Gazi. The large Minotaur had clearly not been intending to stop, preferring perhaps to run Gazi over or let her move aside, but when he saw her face, his hooves stopped dead in their tracks.
The Minotaur’s eyes fixed on Gazi’s large eye, and his eyes widened in recognition. He instantly made room for her to walk past him, giving Gazi a lot of space. She brushed past him with her faint smile.
“Your pardons, warrior.”
Calruz stared at her back as she left. He turned to Erin.
“Do you know her?”
“Sort of. Why?”
Calruz stared at Erin, back at Gazi’s disappearing figure, and shook his head.
“She looked like—it is nothing. You would likely not know her as an Izrilian.”
Erin felt a little insulted at that, but she didn’t correct the Minotaur’s error. He snorted, rubbed at his face, and stomped into the inn, nearly running her over. She hopped back and eyed Calruz. His eyes were bloodshot, and he looked tired.
“Well, can I help you, Mr. Grumpy?”
“Food. Drink. I will have both.”
He didn’t seem to care if she was sick. Erin sighed, walked into her kitchen, and got Calruz a sandwich. He eyed the hefty slices of ham and cheese packed between two flimsy pieces of bread, but devoured the meal without complaint. Then he sat back and eyed her.
Erin stared back. It was quite silent in her inn. Rags had left after losing to Erin several times, and Toren was busy cleaning dishes.
“Um. Nice day, isn’t it? I haven’t gone outside much, but I assume it’s nice.”
Calruz kept staring at her. Erin shifted in her seat. It wasvery quiet.
“It’s not a bad day when there are no monsters killing you, right?”
He kept staring. She avoided his gaze.
“It’s not raining, at least.”
“You should have fought.”
Erin glanced up at Calruz. The Minotaur was still staring at her with bloodshot eyes.
“Excuse me?”
“You. You should have fought.”
“Fought…who?”
“Last night. You went out to avenge the insect. You did not. But you should have fought.”
Erin opened her mouth and closed it for a second.
“You mean Pawn and Ksmvr. I didn’t go out to fight.”
“You did not.”
Calruz agreed. He shifted in his seat and put his elbows on his knees as he faced her.
“But you should have. It was a matter of honor. If you cared for the one called Pawn, you should have fought to protect him.”
“Um.”
Erin didn’t know what to say. Where had this come from? But Calruz was direct and as blunt as…his giant axe would be if it met her face. Well, not that blunt. She’d met chess players like him.
“I’m sorry, but fighting would have been prett—really stupid. I would have lost and gotten chopped up.”
“That is immaterial.”
“Um. No it’s not. I don’t want to die.”
He snorted at her. Erin almost expected to see steam coming out of his nose.
“Those who believe they will lose before battle begins have already lost.”
“Yeah, but Iknow I would have lost. That guy you wanted me to fight? Ksmvr? He hit me once, and I was seeing stars for an hour. He’s a warrior. I’m—not.”
“If you are not a warrior, you should become one. It is unbefitting for a female to be alone and not be a warrior.”
This conversation had taken another right-angle turn into weirdness. Erin tried to come up with a response.
“I have a skeleton. For…protection.”
Toren poked his head out of the kitchen. Calruz glanced at him and snorted.
“It is worthless. Weak.”
For some reason, Erin thought Toren looked insulted, but skeletons didn’t have emotions, did they?
“Well—I, uh, I can fight too. If I really have to. I’ve got [Bar Fighting] as a skill, you know.”
Calruz stared blankly at Erin. She blushed.
“I can fight. But I don’t want to pick fights I know I’ll lose. Look, this Ksmvr guy has levels in some kind of warrior class, right? He’d kill me if I fought.”
“There is more to strength than mere levels.”
“Yeah, but I’m not a Minotaur. I don’t have muscle. Or horns for poking people.”
Calruz rolled his eyes towards the roof.
“I refer toSkills.”
“Yeah, like I said, I’ve got one. And, uh, [Lesser Strength]. Forgot that.”
“That is not what I meant. I mean Skills for combat.”
Erin stared at Calruz with such complete incomprehension in her eyes that he seemed taken aback.
“You…do not know?”
“About what? Skills?”
“Activated skills. Combat skills.”
“…Noooooooo.”
He blinked at her. Then Calruz stood up.
“Follow me.”
——
“Observe. This is my Skill.”
Calruz pointed to the rock he’d found on the ground. It was a good-sized boulder that came up to Erin’s waist. She blinked at it and then at his axe.
“Won’t that break?”
“No.”
Calruz raised the massive battleaxe over his head like a woodcutter about to split a log. But then he spoke. Or rather—roared. Erin jumped as he brought the axe down.
“[Hammer Blow]!”
The axe met the rock, and the next thing Erin knew, Toren had tackled her to the ground. All was confusion as the thunderous impact stopped ringing in her ears and her bones. When Erin got up, she saw the boulder was rubble.
As in—a few split fragments of stone were all that remained at the impact site. The rest of the rock had split and shattered into a million pieces. Erin blinked at the rock and then at Carluz’s axe.
“Oh.That’s what you meant by Skills.”
“Yes. It is my sole Skill.”
“And it’s, uh—wow.”
Erin stared at the boulder.
“Wow. Wow. Uh.Wow.”
Calruz seemed happy that she was impressed. He stuck the battleaxe in the earth and pointed to it.
“That is what you should learn. Skills. If you must be alone, you must not be unprotected. You must fight.”
“But I’m not a warrior. I mean, I don’t have a class—”
Calruz snorted at Erin.
“Immaterial. Classes, levels, these are just additions. What you lack is the soul of the warrior. You must have it. A female must not be alone without the power to defend herself. The singer must not be silenced. You must be stronger.”
He pointed at Erin with a finger twice as wide as her own.
“I have decided this. I will teach you starting tomorrow. There are two days remaining before I go into the Ruins. I will have you learn to at least fight properly until then.”
Erin opened her mouth. She stared at the splintered rock and at Calruz.
“Um. Okay. Thank you.”
He nodded.
“I will rest now. My party will come soon. They must have food. See to it.”
“Uh—”
Calruz stomped towards the inn. Erin watched him go. She stared at the boulder. Slowly, she edged towards it.
The rock wasn’t warm from the impact. But itwas sharp. Erin cut her finger.
“Ow.”
She stared at the blood, then heard a scuffling sound. She looked around and saw Toren next to the battleaxe Calruz had embedded in the earth.
The skeleton was pulling and heaving at the battleaxe stuck in the dirt as hard as it could. The heavy blade didn’t budge.
Erin sighed. She watched the skeleton as it scrabbled for purchase, pushing its feet into the grass as it tried to uproot the weapon.
“That’s just sosad.”
——
Weak.
Calruz thought the word aloud as he lay in his room and on the two beds Erin had pushed together for him. It was something he had never had to think about.
But she was weak. Pitifully weak. Normally, that was fine. He expected that of Humans. But she—
She wasoffensively weak. And it was wrong. It bothered Calruz. She should not be so weak. She had no right being so weak. Because there was something in her that demanded strength.
He was thinking about Erin. Or was it Ryoka? Either or. No—the Runner was strong. She was just not a warrior. She had to learn honor. Once she did, she would be a true warrior. If she gained levels, she would be worthy.
But Erin Solstice was different. Even now, Calruz could remember the music. It haunted him. It was wrong. It made him—
Weak? Weaker? It was not the music of his home. There were no pounding drums, no voices raised for battle. It was not strong music. But neither was it weak.
It was unique. And it should be protected. But she was weak. So she had to be stronger.
Calruz shifted in his bed, ignoring the groaning wood. She had to be stronger. If she were to perish, he would regret it. To let an innocent life end because of inaction was the worst strike against his honor. He would teach her.
But of course, it wasn’t Erin that Calruz wanted to teach. But she would be good—practice, yes. She was female. Ryoka was female. He would learn how to deal with Human females. Because at least one—two of them were worthy of respect. For different reasons.
A tanned face appeared in Calruz’s mind, and he saw a quick form dashing away from him. A bird, tethered to the ground. A hunting raptor seeking a home.
Beautiful. Fierce. And she had proper breasts, not like the small-mammaried females he kept running across.
He wondered where she was right now.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T06:54:41)
Calruz is down bad, holeeey
Leave your typos here.
madisj (2023-03-08T01:13:13)
Calruz was misspelled as Carluz
Kai (2023-03-09T18:55:35)
You could lead that minotaur to water and he’d drink the entire river dry, he so thirsty.
Sammy (2023-03-16T11:21:55)
“He had learned long ago that her heart had been closed long ago to Human men.”
Use of long ago twice in one sentence, could remove first one without sacrificing meaning.
Jacob Manaker (2023-03-19T17:08:33)
[spoiler title=”Worse, the statement as a whole is inconsistent with later developments!  “] i.e., when she dates Kevin for fun. [/spoiler]
Grault (2023-03-22T01:56:05)
I liked Gazi, but now… Fuck Gazi.
Kris (2023-04-12T17:16:19)
Ehh, people are capable of change and growth. Something being closed doesn’t mean it can’t be opened again.
Le Hussard sur le toit (2023-06-13T01:23:26)
Same but to be honest she’s a vassal of someone called “king of destruction”, does not sound exactly like a team of good Samaritans.
Scrifty (2023-11-09T00:20:22)
Her king is someone called the king of destruction. That should’ve let you know she was morally grey at best.
Broock (2023-11-20T05:25:45)
Calruz, le macho white knight simp. Ce qui n’est pas forcément une mauvaise chose.
ColonelMatt (2023-12-01T23:59:18)
I will have you learn to at least fight properly until then
I think this should read ‘I willhelp you learn to at least fight properly until then’?
Toni (2023-12-02T16:54:15)
I mean, this is very consistent with her character. Everything, from her feigned politeness to her use of charm magic has been not-that-subtly hinted at since she met Erin, pretty much.
Toni (2023-12-02T16:55:49)
Have is correct. He is stating a fact. If he said help, it would indicate he wasn’t fully confident. Have indicates that he believes to his core that he can teach Erin to be a warrior in only 2 days
Phabian (2024-02-10T16:43:27)
shouldnt lionett have read hair and not blond?
Someone10101 (2024-02-29T10:48:03)
Why? I don’t see anything wrong here
In fact, I like this even more.
Maladal (2024-05-05T01:07:21)
“Oh.That’s what you meant by Skills.”
“Yes. It is my sole Skill.”
We are being told that at level 20+ Calruz has a single skill?
That’s a tough one to swallow.
Aeri (2024-05-30T00:19:27)
Its his sole direct-attack skill. He probably has quite a few other skills in general, especially given his level. But he has likely never needed any other purely skill-based attack as yet, given his natural strength and training.
Skills are gained partially as a result of need. If he has no need of other skills to attack,  due to his own natural combat prowess, then he’d get other kinds of skills. Skills that might let him dodge or block attacks, or perhaps some sort of ‘Charge!’ Skill, bonuses to his natural strength/stamina, leadership skills, taunts, etc.
There’s a large number of skills that would be eminently worthwhile for a warrior, without them being actual straight-up attacks.
U*** (2024-06-29T07:57:47)
I think she kept her hair dyed at this point.
AbraCadaver (2024-10-11T05:09:11)
“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”
Aw. The inn isn’t gonna wander, is it. :(
SamArcher72 (2024-12-13T17:44:20)
This Minotaur is hopeless .
Lotus (2025-01-13T06:25:29)
Jan 13, 2025
This is my first run through waiting reading the wandering inn and my first comment ?
How the hammers treat Ryoka is so interesting. After what she’s done, you’d expect them to, if not hate her, dislike her at the very least. I think all they’ll need is an apology and a promise to do better, when they meet again, which is sweet.
And Calruz is gone for her ?
Erin’s my favorite though. Her immortal moment skill and how she uses it feels so moving and important.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.56
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-56/

“Fire! Put out the fire!”
Of all the ways to wake up, hearing that shouted from below still beat being stabbed in the chest. But the Horns of Hammerad were still out of bed and racing downstairs within seconds of hearing it.
A cloud of black smoke billowed out of the kitchen as Erin stumbled out, hacking and coughing. Toren followed her, holding a smoking, flaming pan. He charged outside, and the Horns of Hammerad saw him hurl the pan to the ground and begin stomping on whatever had been inside.
The smoke began to clear a bit, but it still stung the eyes. The smell of burnt grease and charcoal lingered unpleasantly in the air.
Erin stared up at the adventurers staring down at her from the staircase. She grinned weakly and waved.
“Oh. Hi. Um. Anyone want pancakes?”
——
Much to Erin’s surprise, the Horns of Hammerad actually knew what pancakes were. Apparently, pancakes weren’t a product of the modern age, and so she served several heaping plates to her guests until they were all full.
Pancakes were fun. Pancakes were easy to make. Erin could let Toren stir the batter together while she cooked them on a pan over the fire. She used a spatula and oiled her pan well to get the pancakes to stop sticking. She’d tried flipping it like chefs did on TV, but she stopped after the pancakes kept landing on Toren and the fire.
She joined them for the last bit of the meal once she’d reached a critical mass of pancake. Erin munched on her food as the adventurers ate their way back into the waking world.
“What was all that about?”
Erin looked at the bald mage and tried to remember his name. Soulstorm? It was something like that.
“Oh, uh, I was trying to teach him how to cook.”
Erin pointed to Toren as the skeleton walked into the room with a pitcher of milk. She accepted a refill of the glass as the other adventurers stared at her.
“What? I thought it would be easy. Fun fact: it’s not.”
“A skeleton…cooking?”
“Well, he already does all the other chores. If he could do stuff like make eggs, stir soup, and flip pancakes, it’d make my life even easier. But, uh, skeletons don’t really understand the difference between ‘cooked’ and ‘burned’.”
Gerial exchanged a glance with the half-Elf and shook his head. But Ceria looked intrigued.
“It’s not a bad idea. I’m still not sure what Pisces was thinking, giving you only one skeleton as a guard, but I suppose that’s all your mana supply could take.”
Erin froze, fork stuck in her food.
“My what? I don’t have any magic. I mean, I can’t use magic.”
Ceria frowned at Erin.
“Really? Who told you that?”
“Pisces.”
“Ah. But I wasn’t talking about spellcasting. I just meant your internal mana supply.”
Ceria looked around and saw blank faces around her, except for the other mage.
“Oh come on. You all know you have magic inside of you, right?”
Gerial looked down at his stomach, bemused.
“We do?”
“Of course. Magic is part of us. It’s in the air we breathe, the food we eat—we all have our own supply of mana, however small. My kind has a great deal of internal magic we generate simply by existing, so we make good mages. Humans on the other hand—”
She shrugged and bit into a piece of pancake. She chewed and spoke around her food.
“Not as much. But exceptions exist, and they make good mages. But even if you don’t cast spells, you have some mana in you. Enough to sustain basic spells or supply a summoned creature with enough magic to survive if it can’t by itself.”
“So I have magic? In me? Does that mean if Toren wasn’t here I’d—be able to cast spells?”
Ceria paused and shook her head sympathetically.
“I’m sorry. But if Pisces tested you, it’s unlikely. Maybe there’s a better chance, but…”
“Oh.”
Erin said it quietly. She kept eating in silence as the other adventurers spoke.
“I’d like to go into the city and collect our share of the supplies. We also need to visit the Adventurer’s Guild to make sure we’re still cleared to enter the ruins. But, ah, we can’t go if that adventurer is still around.”
Calruz scowled as he ate two pancakes in a single bite.
“Gazi the Omniscient. It would be inconvenient if she were to trouble us now. I will go with you.”
Erin blinked and looked up from her plate.
“Gazi? Oh, she’s gone.”
The other Horns of Hammerad stared at her.
“Are you sure?”
“Yeah. She told me she was going and looking for something. Somewhere else.”
Erin was aware of the other adventurers sharing a look at the table, but she didn’t understand what it meant. It was just a look that told you it was significant but didn’t share any of the details. It could be that it was a look to signify the world was changing and those present were at the precipice of a new era. Or it could be a look to subtly acknowledge some unlucky person had stepped in dog poo and hadn’t noticed. You couldn’t tell.
“Well then, that makes things simpler. At least for now.”
Gerial shook his head and stood up from the table.
“We’ll see if anything else needs doing in the city. Calruz, do you still want to join us?”
The Minotaur snorted.
“There is no need to waste any more time with useless chattering and polishing weapons. Tomorrow, we fight. Tell the others I will be ready when the time comes.”
The adventurers nodded and began trooping out the door. Erin stared at their dirty dishes and pointed silently to Toren and then at the table. The skeleton obediently walked over and began to gather them.
Calruz was still eating, but Erin could hear the other adventurers debating how to spend their last day. Some were in favor of buying trinkets to send to family, others to see what kind of entertainment was available in the city. Erin clearly heard Gerial talking casually to the others as he closed the door behind him.
“That’s odd. Was that large rock there yesterday?”
Erin shot up in her seat.
“Wait!”
She threw the door open and caught the adventurers as they were descending the hill. Erin desperately waved her arms at them and shouted incoherently.
“Stop! Hold it! Don’t go any further!”
They turned and stared. Erin pointed with a trembling finger at the large, conspicuously inconspicuous boulder casually blocking their path towards the city.
“Stay right there! If the rock moves, hit it or cast a spell or something!”
“Hit the rock?”
Perplexed, Gerial and the other adventurers stared at the hidden Rock Crab. Ceria, on the other hand, narrowed her eyes and took a few steps back.
Erin rushed inside her inn and came out a few seconds later with a basket full of seed cores. Calruz followed her and stared at the giant boulder.
“What are you worried about?”
Erin grabbed one of the seed cores carefully and held it in one hand. She pointed at the boulder as she glared at Calruz.
“There’s a monster down there.”
He squinted.
“I don’t see it. Is it hiding in the ground?”
“No!”
Erin pointed again.
“See that? That thing?”
Calruz looked. He frowned.
“That is a boulder. What of it?”
Ceria coughed.
“It’s actually not, Calruz. It’s a monster, hiding under the rock. What you’re actually looking at is a shell.”
The other adventurers reacted to that news. Several swore, and those holding weapons backed up as they gripped their weapon hilts.
“Are you sure?”
The half-Elf nodded. Her wise, half-Elven eyes…looked pointedly at the edge of the rock, devoid of moss or other signs the rock had been rooted in the ground for a long time, and Erin’s face.
“I didn’t see it at first, but there’s definitely something odd about that boulder. It looks too—out of place. See how the grass is flattened around it? And it hasn’t sunk into the earth as it should have over time.”
Gerial frowned as he half-unsheathed his sword.
“I believe you, but my [Dangersense] hasn’t gone off.”
“Not everything trips [Dangersense]. And if it’s a sneak attack, you’d have to be right next to the creature, and by that point, you’d be dead.”
He blew out his mustache.
“Fair point. Well, how do you want to tackle it? Freezing spells and then we charge in?”
Calruz nodded. He reached for his axe.
“I’ll break its shell.”
“No need.”
To the adventurers’ surprise, Erin walked forwards.
“I can totally scare it off.”
Calruz’s face was a statement of incredulity.
“Impossible.”
“Watch me.”
Erin took aim and threw. Her first seed core splattered harmlessly against the Rock Crab’s shell. The second and third did the same as blue-gray seeds and liquid began trickling down the side of the boulder.
The adventurers were just starting to fidget in place when the Rock Crab suddenly lurched to its feet. They immediately readied their weapons, but the giant crab began scuttling away as Erin threw several more Seed Cores after it. Courtesy of her Skill, each one struck the shell until the Rock Crab scuttled over a hilltop and disappeared.
Erin turned, smiling, and saw the Horns of Hammerad staring at her, slack-jawed.
“How did you do that?”
She showed them the seed cores and explained about the strange trees in the orchard she’d found. Ceria frowned at the small cores.
“I think I know what you’re talking about. Can I see one of those, ah, seed cores?”
“Here.”
Erin casually tossed a seed core at Ceria. The half-Elf yelped, desperately grabbed the pod, and held it gingerly in her hands as if it were a live grenade.
“Tree kissingrot! Don’t do that!”
“Why?”
Ceria’s hand shook as she very carefully held the seed core in her hand. Her’s eyes bulged.
“We’ve beendrinking this? Are you insane?”
“Just the outer part! I know how to pick ones where the core isn’t broken! Honest! You’re not dead, so I’m right.”
Erin hurried to reassure Ceria. The half-Elf looked pale, but after a while, she accepted that Erin probably hadn’t poisoned them.
Gerial frowned at the seed cores in Erin’s basket, confused.
“That explains why the crab ran off. But why is it afraid of a tiny bit of poison? It’s a lot bigger than we are.”
“It must not have strong resistance to poison. Either that or it has no way to reduce the buildup of toxins like we do. Those crab-creatures might carry the sickness within them for the rest of their lives if they’re not careful.”
Gerial and the other adventurers muttered as Erin handed Toren the seed cores to put back in the inn. This time, far away from the kitchen.
“Well, you saved our hides from a nasty encounter. That thing was big, and I don’t relish wasting any more healing potions before we go into the ruins.”
“Mm.”
Calruz folded his arms and stared at the place where the Rock Crab had been. He didn’t appear particularly impressed.
“Go, then. I will remain here.”
Ceria and the others eyed him curiously.
“Doing what? Sleeping?”
“No. Teaching.”
——
“Only Calruz would think about teaching an [Innkeeper] to fight.”
Gerial shook his head as he and Ceria pushed their way into the local Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. The building was far smaller than they were used to and bustling with activity. Countless Bronze-rank adventurers were trying to turn in bounties on monsters or take the few requests posted on the jobs board.
“Here.”
Ceria pointed, and the two got into the shortest line. They kept talking as a harried-looking Drake receptionist dealt with the adventurers in front of them.
“I mean, why does she need training? You saw how she handled that crab thing.”
“That’s not the same as knowing how to fight. And besides, those seed cores won’t do much good against a group of bandits or even a few Goblins.”
Ceria had to raise her voice to talk over the hubbub in the room. The receptionist in front of them had a loud voice, and she was using it liberally as she dealt with the line in front of them.
“Look, I don’t care how the Human cities do it. We don’t give out bounties for beating up [Thugs]. How do you know they were guilty anyways? Did you just beat up some kids? In the future, let the Watch take care of it. Next!”
“Still. Do you think he’s going to teach her how to use a weapon? In a day?”
“It’s Calruz. He probably expects Erin to be like Minotaur children. They grow up knowing how to use a blade.”
“Evil Goblins? Robbing you? And what are we supposed to do about it? Go and post a bounty if you’re that upset. But they’reGoblins. Go grab a sword and deal with it yourself!”
“I hope he goes easy on her. I’d hate for him to hurt her accidentally.”
“You Humans. Always so worried. She’s survived this far. Calruz won’t kill her by the time we get back. Probably.”
“No, there are no more requests available. Sorry. Next! You two, the Human and, er, pointy-eared Human! I’m assuming you’re a half-Elf, but let me know if I’m wrong.”
Gerial and Ceria looked up. Selys waved at them, and they approached.
“What can I do for you? And if it’s about lodging or supplies, don’t bother. The Guild is all out of everything.”
“No, ah, it’s not that, Miss.”
Gerial cleared his throat and smiled at Selys. The Drake did not return the smile.
“We’re part of the Horns of Hammerad. We—and four other teams—put in a request a few days ago to enter the ruins as part of an expedition. We were wondering if we had permission—”
“Oh, you’rethat lot.”
Selys’s eyes widened, and she stared at Gerial and Ceria.
“You’re one of the first non-Drake Silver-rank teams we’ve had in the city in a while. I expected you’d be bigger. And don’t you have a Minotaur in your group?Please don’t let him cause any damage.”
She rushed on before either adventurer could respond.
“Anyways, the Guild already approved your request, so there’s nothing to worry about. Go right ahead.”
Both Ceria and Gerial exchanged a quizzical glance. Gerial cleared his throat.
“Um. We don’t need any seals? Any letters or proof we can enter?”
This time, it was Selys’ turn to look confused.
“Why would you need anything like that? You’re adventurers, right? Just go out and kill monsters and try not to get killed.”
“Oh it’s just—”
“It’s just that in Human cities, adventuring is a lot more regulated.”
Ceria leaned over the counter and smiled at Selys.
“We don’t want to cause any trouble, being outsiders and all.”
Selys smiled at Ceria, her eyes flicking to the half-Elf’s pointed ears.
“Well, I appreciate that. Most of you Humans—er, the Humans we get don’t obey many of our laws. If you could clear out those ruins so they all go away, I think the city would throw you a celebration.”
“Something to look forwards to. We’re heading in tomorrow. So just to clarify—there’s nothing we need to do?”
Selys waved one hand.
“You’re fine. Go in whenever you like—just don’t bring any trouble out with you. The Watch is busy enough as it is.”
She turned to call for the next adventurer when another Drake walked over and put a hand on Selys’ shoulder. The other Drake murmured in Selys’ ear. She called out to Gerial and Ceria as they were about to leave.
“Wait! You two!”
They turned. Selys flashed them another smile.
“Sorry, but you’re from the north, aren’t you? There’s an annoying Human [Messenger] in the city, and he keeps bothering people.”
“Oh?”
Intrigued, Gerial and Ceria returned to the counter. Gossip and rumor were the lifeblood of an adventurer, and they were always curious about politics, even in cities like Liscor.
“Apparently, he’s come representing some flower. No—oh! I see. House Reinhart. That makes more sense.”
Selys rolled her eyes. She seemed to vaguely recognize the name, but that was all. For the Humans of the north—
“House Reinhart? Which Lady?”
The [Receptionist]’s overworked shrug said it all. This wasn’t even herjob—but because her grandmother was the Adventurer Guild’s [Guildmistress], sometimes people came to her to ask for help.
“I didn’t ask. That’s what he’s saying. He wants to talk to someone important. Well, we have a Council, but they’re not going to listen to every Human noble who comes calling. But he’s persistent, and he won’t go away. Is this important?”
“It’s one of the Five Families!”
“The—oh, yeah. I know. But it’s the north’s Five Families. They don’t have any power here. You’re lucky I recognized it—I don’t even think I could name all five.”
If anything, realizing this came from a northern power seemed to make the Drakes less inclined to want to hear the [Messenger] out. But Ceria had a feeling she knew exactly who was asking—
“You don’t know the Five Families by heart?”
Selys rolled her eyes and twitched her tail in annoyance. She glowered at Sostrom. Sostrom, who didn’t know about Gazi of Reim, but whodid know about this.
“Listen. They’re your Five Families. Not mine. You want me to name all six Walled Cities? I can do that. Any child could. I think I have them. It’s Reinhart, Veltras, El…no, wait…”
Gerial took over for her with a smile as she frowned.
“The Reinharts, Veltras, Terland, Wellfar, and El families were the first Humans to ever settle on this continent. They were aristocracy—related to kings from the continent Terandria. They’re still very rich and influential today.”
Selys nodded, moderately grateful to him.
“See? I knew that. Just not their names. Like—El? What kind of name is that? You Humans and your strange names.”
She shook her head and continued.
“—I know they’re influential, but Liscor isn’t ruled by Human nobility. They literally have no power here, and so if some ‘Reinhart’ wants to talk to the Council…”
Her look said that it sounded like a pain and no wonder the Council didn’t want to deal with it. Not that Liscor’s Council did much. But Ceria now stepped in and leaned over the counter. The busy [Receptionists], the Drake asking for Selys’ advice, weren’t too interested. Until Ceria said the other name, which the [Messenger] should have led with.
“What aboutMagnolia Reinhart?”
It was a fallacy of Izril’s northern Humans to think that the Five Families’ names would instantly carry as much weight as they did in the north. But the other name?
Gerial saw Selys’ head snap up in an instant. Her quill stopped writing notes in her ledger as her eyes widened.
“Magnolia Reinhart? Wait, you think it’s her?”
“What’s the difference? She’s House Reinhart, and it is probably her.”
Sostrom was still peeved, but Selys gave him a look as if the man were stupid.
“Reinhart nothing. LadyMagnolia was the one who fought in the Antinium Wars! She broke the siege of Liscor! Naane—run to the Council! Tell them it’s her, not some random [Lady]! Of all the stupid—she’s like the one Human we’d hear out!”
In Drake lands, she was one of a handful of Humans you’d know. Tyrion Veltras, perhaps, the war-leader, Magnolia Reinhart—maybe another matriarch like Maviola El—but Magnolia was the only one who might even possibly be respected.
The other receptionist practically sprinted out of the building. Selys stared at her back and then shook her head. She looked at the Horns, and they gazed at her, looking slightly triumphant. Though they, ironically, didn’t know Magnolia’s full weight in Liscor. Selys stared at the heaving room of mostly Humanity and sighed. Then she smiled at Gerial and raised her voice.
“Next!”
——
Erin made a fist with her hands. She raised it and prepared to punch. Then she hesitated.
“Aren’t you going to block?”
Calruz shook his head.
“Give me your strongest punch. I wish to feel it.”
Erin nodded. She raised her fist again and then hesitated again.
“You’resure I can hit you?”
Calruz snorted impatiently.
“If you can injure me, I will hang up my axe and cease living as a warrior this instant.”
“Fine then. You asked for it!”
Erin clenched her hand tightly. She breathed in and out quickly a few times, trying to psyche herself up. Somehow, even though Calruz was just standing in the grass outside of her inn, he suddenly lookedhuge—that was, even taller than he already was.
Three hundred pounds and closer to seven feet than six of solid Minotaur loomed over Erin. She took a deep breath and attacked.
“Hiyah!”
Erin tried to punch hard and fast. Her fist struck Calruz in his stomach, and she yelped.
“Ow!”
His abs were likestone.
“Try again.”
Erin did. Her fist bounced off of Calruz’s stomach.
“Ow! Why do I feel like I’m hurting myself more than you?”
“Your form is terrible.”
“Thanks.”
“It is not a compliment.”
Calruz sighed.
“Do you not even know how to punch properly?”
Erin stared at him.
“Is there a way to punch right? Don’t you just make a fist and—”
She punched at the air and then saw Calruz’s expression.
“Well, I don’tknow! I’ve never been in a fight before I came here!”
This time, it was Calruz’s turn to eye Erin.
“Never?”
“Never.”
“What about your creature? Surely it knows how to do battle.”
Calruz pointed at Toren, who was silently watching him teach Erin. The skeleton made a fist. It looked okay to Erin, but Calruz took one look and shook his head.
“That neither you nor your—pet know how to defend yourselves is a shame. Were you never taught how to fight?”
The Minotaur looked both surprised and disgruntled. He shook his head unhappily.
“I see I have much to teach you. Starting with how to strike.”
“What about your skill? That [Hammer Blow] attack was amazing! How about you teach me how to do that?”
“Someone who cannot even punch properly would never learn a Skill.”
That made sense, but Erin had more questions. She hadn’t really been able to ask Calruz yesterday, what with having to cook dinner.
“Okay, your skill is super-advanced. Buthow do you do it? I mean, is it magic?”
Calruz snorted.
“I am no mage. That was a Skill. It allows me to transcend my hardest strike and turn it into something even stronger.”
“Yeah…I still don’t get it.”
Erin pointed at Calruz’s axe.
“If you swing that thing as hard as you can, how can you somehow hitharder than your hardest hit? Um. What I meant was—”
“It is the act of exceeding one’s limits.”
Calruz tapped the handle of the axe on his back. Toren had barely managed to get it out of the ground, but the Minotaur swung it around easily.
“There is art in this. My kind practices little magic. There are war mages, and we do study in places like Wistram—but we respect martial ability more often.”
He snorted dismissively.
“Nevertheless, we respect the art of war in magic, engineering, and all forms. We understand honing one’s techniques, learning systematically. And this—we understand the flow of combat. To learn and use such Skills, you must forget your frailties and strike with heart.”
“That sounds deep. Like a martial art.”
Erin expected him to give her a blank look, but the Minotaur only smiled, and his blue eyes lit up a bit.
“The House of Minos learned from [Martial Artists] to create the basis of our hand-to-hand training. I am surprised you know of it. Most Izrilians are ignorant [Brawlers]. What do you know of such things?”
Erin was the one flat-footed, and she tried to gesture and do karate-chops.
“I know it’s good! It’s sort of like…um…a way to fight with your hands? You kick and punch in special ways. And footwork and stuff.”
Calruz actually winced as he watched her, but he gave a slow nod.
“That…proves you know what it is, if nothing of it.”
“Hey! Fair.”
He went on.
“I know a Human who fights with her fists. She is…skilled. But wild. And she does not understand. She fights with cunning and grace, but she only fights at her limit. She does not think she can go further. Thus—she never will.”
He stared off into the distance.
“She lacks vision. I will make her understand that.”
That made no sense to Erin, but it was nice to see that Calruz had a crush on someone. She just hoped whomever it was appreciated big…bull guys. Somehow, she had doubts about his romantic prospects, but she continued asking questions.
“So what’s the key behind a Skill opposed to just fighting good? Desire?”
Calruz returned to their discussion, which was, Erin realized, straying from what she’d hear from some practitioner on Earth. There was—ability to fight—andSkills. And it was Skills that Calruz was trying to teach her about.
“Not just desire. It is the refinement of a single strike into a moment of perfection. But that is something far beyond you at this moment. For now, you must learn to punch.”
He held up a massive hand, twice as big as hers, palm towards her.
“Strike my palm. I will show you how to attack properly.”
Erin made a fist. Calruz immediately shook his head.
“Not like that. You will break your fingers if you strike unevenly.”
He held up his other hand and made a fist. It looked like a furry brick, and Erin wondered what would happen if he hit her with it.
“Like this. Strike with your knuckles here andhere. And keep your thumb outside your fist.”
Calruz pointed to Erin’s index and ring fingers, demonstrating with his own fist. She copied him, awkwardly shifting her fingers into the right positions.
“And then when you strike, step forwards and move your hips like so.”
He shifted his hips as he threw a lightning-fast jab. Erin blinked. Shefelt the wind from his arm.
“Okay let me try. Like—this?”
She punched his hand. It felt better, somehow. She could put more weight into it. Calruz grunted and nodded.
“Again.”
Erin punched again and again, switching hands at his directive. He nodded after a few more tries.
“Good. That is the proper technique. Now—kick!”
He showed Erin how to kick at his midsection and had her try. Twice, she fell down, but after about ten minutes, she was kicking hard enough to make him block with two hands rather than one.
“Now, the skeleton. Punch it.”
Erin eyed Toren. He immediately raised his hands like Calruz, but the Minotaur pointed at him.
“You. Thing. Dodge her.”
The skeleton turned its head to Calruz silently, as if wondering whether it should obey. But it started dodging left and right.
“Try to strike it.”
Erin did. Toren dodged. He was quite quick. She punched and kicked, but he kept on dodging.
“You are painfully slow. Move faster! Don’t strike where he is, but where he will be.”
Calruz gave her advice—or insulted her as Erin tried, sweating. She punched at Toren, and he leaned back effortlessly.
“Fast. Faster. Pull back your arm quickly.”
Erin chased Toren around fruitlessly for a few minutes and then stopped and glared at Calruz.
“Why am I learning to fight with my fists? Shouldn’t I be using a sword?”
He shook his head.
“I am teaching you a basic truth. You must know how to fight without weapons, or it will be a weakness others will exploit. Besides, you understand nothing of the flow of combat. You must learn to strike your opponent before you are worthy of using a blade.”
He looked at Toren. The skeleton wasn’t winded from dodging Erin, having no lungs to worry about, but Erin was sweaty and gasping for air.
“Very well. We shall try something else. The skeleton shall guard, and you will break through. Punch him, kick him. Destroy your opponent.”
Something about the way he said that bothered Erin. She squared up against Toren and tried a punch. This time, the skeleton blocked it.
“Ow.”
“If you break your fingers or cut your skin, there are potions. Keep attacking.”
Erin did. Toren had a harder time blocking her. She was stronger than he was, which was odd to think of. Erin punched, and he shifted backwards in the grass slightly as his arm caught her fist. She kicked, and he stumbled.
Erin waited for Toren to regain his balance, which earned her a roar of disapproval from Calruz.
“Don’t stop! Press the attack! Your goal is to defeat your enemy. Hurt him. Mercy is a luxury only the strong can afford. Attack until he lies in pieces.”
Again, the words bothered Erin. But she punched anyways. It was easy. So long as Toren just blocked and didn’t jump around, she could feint a punch and thenkick—
This time, her foot kicked one leg out from under the skeleton. He fell to one knee, and Erin stepped forwards and punched him in the face. His head twisted sideways. Erin ignored the stinging in her hand and raised it again to knock him down.
She stared down at the empty skull and froze. For a second, she was on the ground staring up at a Goblin Chieftain with a sword in his hands. She smelled burning flesh.
She remembered. She remembered another face. Klbkch. And a pool of green blood. She held him in her arms as he died.
Slowly, Toren righted himself and got to his feet. He stared at Erin—as did Calruz. She couldn’t know that her face had gone deadly white or that she was suddenly shaking.
“I can’t do this.”
Calruz shook his head.
“You must. You must learn to fight.”
“No.”
Erin shook her head, or was it her entire body that shook? She felt sick. She was close to throwing up.
“I can’t. I’m no warrior.”
Unbidden, the words she’d dreamed of spoke themselves. Her childhood rhyme.
“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”
Calruz stared at her.
“What does that mean?”
“It means—it means that whenever I got into trouble before, I always got people killed. Or I killed. I nearly died. I can’t do it. Better to just let Toren learn to fight. Teach him instead.”
Erin pointed at Toren. The skeleton nodded, but Calruz shook his head.
“Your king. In times of need, even he defends himself, does he not?”
He meant real kings, but it was true of chess as well.
“Only as a last resort.”
“This is the last resort I speak of. Someday, you will surely be alone and without anyone to protect you. Will you die then or fight?”
Erin didn’t have any good comeback to that. She bowed her head until the Minotaur murmured.
“Striking a downed opponent may be wrong.”
There was something in Calruz’s voice that made Erin look up. He didn’t bark his next few words but spoke more quietly, choosing them carefully.
“Perhaps—yes. There is more honor in you than I thought. Very well. I have little time, so I shall simply teach you to fight. If you practice against your creature, you may learn the basics quickly enough.”
He gestured, and Toren raised his guard again.
“The skeleton will block. Simply strike at him. He is dead, so it matters little what you do. Forget death and battle for the moment. Simply know the purity of combat.”
That sounded better. Erin nodded and stood straight. She made a fist, and Toren blocked.
“That doesn’t mean strike like a pathetic weakling! Hit harder!”
Erin did.
“Ow.”
It wasn’t as if there were any soft part on Toren to hit. Erin punched again, and her fist collided with his bony arm.
“Ow.”
After a few minutes, Calruz had Erin learn to block. This time, Toren attacked, striking her hands and arms hard. But it was easy. Surprisingly easy to see everything coming. Erin’s arms hurt, but the skeleton never landed a punch or kick on her. He was probably taking it easy like Calruz, but the Minotaur seemed approving.
“Now—a spar.”
“Can’t we rest instead?”
Erin complained as she rubbed at her arms. She needed a healing potion. She could already feel the bruises.
“No. Consider this a final test. Both of you—spar with each other. You are a good match. Equally weak. Well, the skeleton knows how to fight, but it should be good practice.”
She wanted to protest, but arguing with Calruz wasworse than trying to shift a stubborn bull. Erin stumbled towards Toren as the skeleton raised his guard. He feinted at her. Mechanically, she blocked.
Blocking was easy. Punching was easy. It was too easy. Fighting was—wasn’t something Erin liked.
Toren kicked at her chest, and Erin’s arm was pushed away. He punched her in the breast.
“Ow! Hey—”
His fist caught her in the jaw. Erin stumbled and then got mad. She caught his fist and slugged Toren in the head. This time, he stepped back. The skeleton carefully eyed Erin and then charged.
That was too fast. And he’d never tried that on Erin. But she was angry now. She stepped sideways at the last moment and rammed him from the side. Toren went sprawling, and Erin kicked him in the ribs as he was getting up.
She didn’t see how Calruz’s eyes widened as she blocked Toren as he rapidly struck at her face and sides, kicking, punching without landing a hit on her. Erin was just acting on instinct. Toren was soslow. He was a fighting machine, but he fought like a machine. He wasn’t original.
She stomped on his foot and pushed him down. Toren rolled as she kicked at him and leapt to his feet. He feinted at her face. Erin didn’t move. She couldtell it was fake. Toren pulled his fist back, confused. Erin hit him futilely in the shoulder. The problem was that she couldn’t really hurt him. He was all bones.
But shewas winning. She could feel it.
Erin was still sick. And tired. And her hands hurt. But there was something else there, too.
Frustration. And a bit of anger.
No—not just a bit. A quiet ocean, sitting just below the depths of Erin’s thoughts. A part of her hated violence. But another part was relieved shecould fight back. It wanted her to never be helpless. It was anger and something else.
And it felt—good to let it out.
Toren punched and received a cross-counter to the face. Erin didn’t know that was what she did. She just saw the opening and took it.
She kicked, and Toren blocked. She dodged a fist to her side and slapped his arm down before hitting his arms as he covered his face.
His guard was faltering. Erin felt a rush of energy. She punched faster, putting her hips into the blow like Calruz had shown her. More strength. She was stronger than Toren, thanks to her Skill.
She just wanted to knock that stupid skeleton down. He kept coming at her, again and again. It didn’t matter that she hit him. He was dead, and he had no flesh to bruise. But he didn’t hold back, and her arms were hurting.
Toren had just kicked Erin’s leg, and she was staggering. But she saw him run at her, and something in her mindclicked. She stood up, raised her hand, took one step, and kicked.
One of Toren’s legs broke. Not the bones themselves—but the leg disconnected, and the skeleton went down. He raised his arms and saw Erin’s fist flying at his head.
She felt it. A perfect strike. A moment of truth. Erin put her entire body into one hit, throwing her entire weight into a strike that smashed right through Toren’s guard and crashed into where his nose would have been if he was alive.
Thud.
His head detached. In slow motion, Erin saw the skeleton’s head fly off the body. She stared as Toren’s head flew off the top of the hill, bounced down the incline, and rolled to a stop fifty feet away.
Erin stared at the upright torso of Toren in shock. After a second, it buckled and fell down.
She stared at her hand. She’d opened up the skin on her knuckles, and she was bleeding. But she’d felt it. She’d hit Toren harder than she’d ever hit—or done—anything in her life. She’d felt it.
Erin stared around. She wanted to know if that was what Calruz was talking about. She looked at the Minotaur. He was gaping at her, mouth wide open, eyes bulging.
After a few moments, Calruz closed his mouth. He stared at Toren and then at Erin. He cleared his throat a few times and then looked at Erin.
“…Can you do that again?”
——
“Take a good look at this.”
Gerial whistled and beckoned to Ceria. She broke off her conversation with Yvlon, and both women walked over to see what was so interesting.
Cervial held up a massive crossbow, sleek black metal and pointed death. It wasn’t currently loaded, of course, but just by looking, the two adventurers could see how much power it had.
He grinned at Yvlon and held it out to her. She accepted it carefully and stared curiously at the device.
“Where did you getthat from, Cervial? I’ve never seen a crossbow made like that.”
He beamed ear-to-ear as she inspected it.
“That’s because this one is made by Dwarves. Custom-ordered. Ever seen one this nice, Gerial? It’s like a bow, but one that you can load and wait until you need to shoot. This one’s a piece of art. Pure Dwarfsteel, straight from the forges of Deríthal-Vel.”
Gerial took the bow from Yvlon as Ceria rolled her eyes. The man exclaimed.
“Beautiful. Crossbow Stan’s got the best ones I’ve seen, and he’ll go green with jealousy when he sees yours. What’s the range compared to a bow…? We should have you and Marian compete for range and accuracy and power.”
Ceria wasn’t as impressed as the other two Humans, but listened readily enough as Cervial extolled the virtues of the device.
“It cost nearly every gold piece we had, but it was worth it. We cracked the armor of a Stone Golem with one shot, and we’ve brought down more shielded enemies than I can count with this.”
“And this is your trump card for the expedition?”
“We might be at a disadvantage if we run into tight corridors, but with this, we’ll be able to pull our weight.”
“Well, we’re all set here. We’ve got a battle plan worked out, and my team and The Horns of Hammerad are set. Menes says his folks have enough mana potions. The only group not accounted for is Gregor’s. Where is he?”
Cervial grinned.
“Gregor is busy going through the last adventurers clamoring to join the expedition. He says he’ll probably turn them all down, but you never know who’ll turn up.”
Gerial reluctantly handed the crossbow back to Cervial. He could easily imagine the Horns of Hammerad with every member holding one of the deadly weapons. Well—everyone except Calruz and Ceria.
“Did we find anyone useful?”
“Some.”
Yvlon shrugged and counted off on her gauntleted fingers.
“A few [Mages], a Silver-rank with sword and shield…not too many, but better than nothing. I asked the mage you told me about, Gerial, but he turned me down.”
Ceria glared at Gerial while he studiously looked the other way.
“It was, ah, just a thought. We could use all the help we can get.”
Cervial shrugged. He carefully began unstringing the black crossbow.
“No use fretting about one or two swords now. We’re five adventuring teams. Counting the extras, we’re over forty people strong, and all of us are Silver-rank. If there’s a Gold-rank team better than this, I’d love to see it.”
Gerial nodded. He glanced covetously at the crossbow as Cervial went to store it in a case and then looked up. Both Yvlon and Ceria glanced up as well.
They were in the Adventurer’s Guild, sitting by themselves at a table. But someone had walked over. A Drake. He seemed…young, at least as far as they could tell. His scales were a lighter shade of blue than most, and he was smiling. At least, it looked like a smile. Just one with a lot of teeth.
“Um. Excuse me? I heard you were the team going into the ruins. Would you mind if I joined your group?”
The adventurers shared a glance. Yvlon cleared her throat and smiled at the Drake.
“I’m sorry, but we have enough fighters, and this is a dangerous expedition we’re embarking on. We can’t take rookies or people who aren’t adventurers.”
The Drake looked surprised.
“How do you know I’m not an adventurer?”
“You don’t have any weapons or armor, and you act like a civilian.”
“Oh.”
The Drake nodded.
“But I still think you might be willing to take me. I have valuable skills I could contribute, and I—I’d like to improve myself.”
“Oh? And what class are you, then? And I don’t believe I caught your name.”
Flustered, the Drake bowed his head slightly.
“Forgive me, I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Olesm. I’m a [Tactician]. Level 24.”
——
Ceria and Gerial returned to the inn and paused. Instead of dinner, they saw an unusual sight. All of the Horns of Hammerad were sitting in the grass, watching as Calruz chased Erin around. He was punching and kicking at her—not as hard or quickly as they knew he could, but with enough force that Erin was screaming and running around, dodging frantically.
“Aaaah! Help!”
Erin ducked and scuttled away as Calruz swung one massive fist towards her head. He scowled at her.
“Stop running! Don’t—don’tcrouch like that. If you must retreat, do it quickly and without wasting motion. Never turn your back to the enemy!”
“Calruz! What are you doing?”
Ceria ran forwards. Erin dove and hid behind her. The half-Elf barred Calruz’s way as the Minotaur tried to follow Erin.
“Move aside, Ceria. I am teaching her to fight.”
“By bullying her?”
“She must learn to fight an enemy stronger and larger than she is.”
“Yeah, but there are limits.I wouldn’t ever get in a fight with a Minotaur. If I’m ever without mana or any potions, I’ll just run for it.”
“Exactly!”
Erin tried to keep Ceria between her and Calruz as she glared at the Minotaur.
“I’m hungry! And tired! I’ve been doing stupid spars all day! I haven’t even hadlunch!”
“Is this true?”
Calruz didn’t appear fazed by either female’s disapproval. He snorted and didn’t respond. Ceria crossed her arms.
“I’m sure Erin was grateful to learn from you, but if she doesn’t want to learn any more, you have to respect that.”
Calruz waved one hand dismissively.
“Running away will not solve anything. She must hone her instincts. I will let her rest after she lands a proper hit on me. Now move—”
He pushed Ceria aside. The half-Elf growled, but Erin dashed forwards.
“Takethis!”
Erin kicked upwards. Instantly, Calruz’s legs tried to lock together, but it was too late. Gerial, Sostrom, and every other male in the Horns of Hammeradwinced as Calruz bellowed in agony.
Fleeing backwards again, Erin stopped ten feet away and stared at Calruz.
“How’sthat, you jerk? Happy?”
Ceria started laughing as Calruz swore in his own language, uttering several guttural sounds as he straightened. He covered his private…part with one hand as he glared at Erin.
“That—was a dishonorable blow.”
“But itwas what you wanted. Keep chasing me and I’ll—I’ll do it again!”
He glared, but Erin could glare with the best, and she was tired and upset. At last, he blew out air through his nostrils, veins throbbing on his forehead.
“Go. Rest.”
Before he could change his mind, Erin fled. Ceria was still laughing.
Calruz turned to Toren and pointed.
“I will teach you. If you are to protect her, you must fight better. Come. Strike at me.”
The skeleton rushed at Calruz without needing further prompting. The Horns of Hammerad began taking bets on whether he’d hit Calruz.
Toren feinted at Calruz and then tried to copy the move Erin had used. His foot came up. Calruz caught his leg and narrowed his eyes at the skeleton.
Erin had just poured herself a cup of water and come back outside in time to see Calruz hurl Toren’s head off the hill. She cleared her throat, and the Horns of Hammerad looked around.
“If you’re done beating up my skeleton, does anyone want something to eat?”
——
“That was hilarious.”
“It was underhanded.”
“I’ve never seen anything funnier.”
Ceria was still chuckling as she sat with Calruz in the inn, eating pasta. It was Erin’s go-to option when she was pressed for time or tired. Boil water, insert pasta, chop up onions, add some butter and other ancillary parts and you’re done. Nothing simpler.
Calruz was still glaring at his plate, but he’d mostly recovered from Erin’s literal low blow. He shook his head as the half-Elf kept poking fun at him.
“At least she was able to strike at me, even by surprise. That is good.”
Ceria stopped laughing and grew serious for a moment.
“But really, Calruz, why were you so intent on teaching her? I thought you were going to just show her how to punch properly, not try and turn her into an adventurer overnight.”
The Minotaur grunted and forked a huge mess of noodles and sauce into his mouth.
“I was. But she showed me that she had more potential than that.”
“Oh?”
He grunted.
“She is—talented. Very talented. Ceria. In the course of a few hours, she was able to overwhelm that skeleton in a fist fight. And then she unlocked a Skill. She learned one in the heat of training.”
Ceria had been drinking blue juice. She choked on her drink, and Calruz had to tap her on the back before she got her breath back.
“You’re joking.”
“No.”
“That’simpossible.”
“It is rare, but I have heard of it being done. Never seen it on one’s first day of training. Erin Solstice has a sense for battle. I have met others like her. She is gifted. Talented. It is a shame she never trained before this.”
“Stop. My ears are burning.”
Erin smiled at Calruz as she brought another plate of steaming sausages out for the two at their table. The Minotaur and Ceria both made sounds of appreciation, but he stopped Erin as she was about to go back into the kitchen.
“You have potential. But if you are attacked now, what I have taught you will not suffice. You must practice. Train. Remember that for now you are still weak.”
“Oh, I know. I’m not going to do anything stupid, even if I do learn to fight, though. Anyways, if I ever do get attacked, I’ll just toss a jar of acid at them.”
Ceria paused as she reached for the largest sausage on the plate.
“What?”
Erin carefully brought out one of the small jars she’d made for the Goblins and showed it to Calruz and Ceria, explaining where she got it from. In the meantime, Ceria scooted her chair as far away from the glowing green liquid as she could.
“Do you—do you have no sense of danger? Why are you socasual with that stuff? What if you dropped it?”
“Hey,I’m not the one handling it! Toren doesn’t have any fleshy bits to melt, and it’s useful.”
Ceria shook her head.
“You Human—no, you’re crazy. Pardon me, Erin, but you are.”
Gerial leaned across the table and studied the jar of acid. He looked up at Erin.
“May I buy one?”
“You? Are youinsane, Gerial?”
“It may come in useful, Ceria. Besides, it shouldn’t break if I put it in my pack.”
“It’s your funeral. Just don’t walk near me while we’re fighting.”
Erin nodded happily and took the silver coins from Gerial.
“I’ve got lots more if you want some.”
Gerial hesitated. He eyed the jar of acid and shook his head.
“One is fine. It may be quite useful, but I’ll trust to my usual preparations rather than rely on it.”
“Speaking of which…”
Ceria cleared her throat and nodded to the other Horns of Hammerad. They gathered around, and the half-Elf pointed to a big pack she and Gerial had carried from the city.
“It’s time. Yvlon bought supplies, but I’ll hand them out now so you can put them in your packs. We’ve got rations and water and four healing potions and four mana potions each. Torches and flint—all the basic supplies, but we’ll have a few carts we’ll take in with us.”
Erin was curious.
“Only four healing potions? Wouldn’t it be better to, I dunno, take a lot? That way you can just heal up again and again, right?”
The adventurers laughed, but not condescendingly. Ceria shook her head and smiled as she explained.
“There’s a limit to how much we can heal. After so many potions the body just—quits. And besides, if we’re taking enough injuries to need more than a few healing potions, we’re already in trouble.”
Gerial nodded as he handed out bulky packages of dried rations and water flasks around.
“The longest battle we’ve had was against an undead Lich a while back. We ran out of potions, and half of our group could barely move from healing up. We can’t rely on magic for everything.”
“Just everything important.”
Ceria muttered under her breath and smiled at Gerial when he glared at her. Calruz cleared his throat, and all the people in the room quieted.
“I am not one for speeches. But tomorrow we go into new ruins, and we may find treasure beyond our dreams there or the greatest of enemies. Regardless, we go together. The Horns of Hammerad shall return triumphant.”
He raised his mug.
“To honor and glory.”
“To honor.”
The Horns of Hammerad clinked glasses. Erin watched, silently, as they drained their mugs in a single go. She was impressed. Even Ceria managed to do it. You wouldn’t expect such a petite form to be able to hold so much liquor—especially when she repeated the trick.
“Can you really handle drinking so much?”
Ceria grinned and shrugged.
“This isn’t that strong. And besides, we’re heading in later in the morning. If I get really drunk, I’ll get someone to heal me. Or drink a mana potion.”
Erin looked confused. Ceria explained.
“Mana potions and alcohol don’t mix well. I drink it, everything comes back up. It’s messy, but effective.”
Somehow, the idea of a graceful half-Elf puking like a college student after a night of hard drinking offended Erin more than anything else.
“Just so long as you don’t forget and drink the acid.”
Ceria shuddered, and Gerial shook his head.
“No worries. I’ve got that securely put away.”
They went to bed early. That surprised Erin.She wouldn’t have been able to sleep a wink, but maybe it was the alcohol that did it.
The Horns of Hammerad trooped upstairs. Erin remained in the common room. She wasn’t tired yet. Well, she was, but there was still some part of her that was awake.
She sat in the empty room, watching Toren move around collecting mugs and sweeping up dust. Vaguely, Erin rubbed at the knuckles of her right hand. It still hurt.
She stared at her hand. It was just a hand. She’d moved chess pieces with it for so long her fingers were callused. But now she stared at her knuckles. She’d never hit anything before in her life. But today she’d won a fight.
Erin closed her fingers into a fist and then sighed. She shook her head.
“…What a crappy thing to be good at.”
[Skill – Power Strike learned!]
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T07:00:18)
Leave your typos. For Honor! For The Horns of Hammerad! For Crossbow Stan!
Typo (2023-04-29T18:59:08)
Her’s eyes bulged.
Her eyes bulged.
Saruul (2023-08-20T13:25:50)
Wonder why she’s not counting her fight with goblins.
Scrifty (2023-11-09T04:01:32)
She doesn’t count murder as a win.
Broock (2023-11-20T14:11:44)
Pauvre Toren, qui continue d’être bullied et décapité.
Les aventuriers n’étaient pas déjà au courant pour les jarres d’acide?
Kakatua (2023-11-25T22:00:29)
It honestly sems strange to me, one would think that after feeling the helplessness of weakness so many times, Erin would want to become stronger… have she already forgotten how kvch died because of her weakness ? How she couldn’t protect Pawn ? How many times does she have to see her friends suffer form her without being able to do anything to want become stronger ?
Toni (2023-12-04T05:46:33)
Erin being really talented at killing/defending herself/fighting yet not wanting to be is both very tragic and intensely funny
yagoldt (2024-01-13T21:09:38)
It’s a waste and not the least bit funny
yagoldt (2024-01-13T21:10:35)
Erin is such a kid. And I don’t say this just because she can’t fight and people who fight and kill are somehow mature or something.
Axel (2024-03-04T10:25:38)
Agreed. It’s extremely naïve
Nicnom (2024-03-18T15:23:35)
I imagine she has the sense there’s too much of a gap, but yeah.
Drifter (2024-04-20T17:27:03)
If you haven’t already noticed, that’s kind of the point. It’s an intentional flaw in her character, much like Ryoka.
lvlarcel (2024-09-24T17:30:29)
I think Saruui meant the one where they broke into her house. I’m pretty sure she killed no goblins then
AbraCadaver (2024-10-11T05:50:54)
Erin stared around. She wanted to know if that was what Calruz was talking about. She looked at the Minotaur. He was gaping at her, mouth wide open, eyes bulging.
YAAAY NEW ERIN TALENT! I bet the elf spell that mucked everything up selected people with some degree of natural combat talent, latent or otherwise.
“…What a crappy thing to be good at.”
I hope she eventually realizes that there’s more that she can protect with this talent than herself. If she had been slightly better at fighting before, Klbchk may not have died, for instance.
She’s gaining the power to protect the things she cares about. I hope she wakes up to the value of that soon. Maybe the problem is that she’s never fully felt the frustration of helplessness? I dunno.
Fuujin (2024-10-13T23:09:59)
She does. That’s why she learned. She just doesn’t like it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.60
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-60/

Erin sat in her inn, staring at the table. She didn’t have anything better to do. Normally, she served customers, chatted, or played chess, but she couldn’t today.
They were all gone. Pawn had left for the city with the other Workers, promising to come back tomorrow.
He—still couldn’t move right. But the other Workers helped him walk and move and—
“Something’s different about him.”
Toren looked up from his table at Erin. He paused, waiting for an instruction, and then went back to scrubbing.
“I mean, he seems different. Heacts different. More confident, y’know?”
Toren carefully picked up a small beetle that had wandered into the building and squished it between his fingers.
“Ew! Don’t do that! Just get rid of them outside!”
Obediently, the skeleton walked out the door. Erin tried not to let her stomach remember the sight of the orange insides of the insect oozing—
“Not many bugs around. But it’s winter. Apparently.”
It wasn’t very cold. Toren opened the door and walked back in, fingers clean, but Erin barely shivered.
“Am I near the equator?”
The skeleton shrugged at her. At least that was something. He generally didn’t respond to questions aimed at him, but he was far more useful than he had been.
Erin leaned over the table. She had no one else to talk to, and at least Toren looked confused when she spoke, which was better than nothing.
“It was the chess. Pawn was totally on the offense this morning! Did you notice that? He was better—I mean, he’s still learning, but he’s taking chances. I can’t wait to see what happens if he and Rags play a game. It’s like he had a massive confidence boost or something. Do you think it was what happened with Ksmvr?”
Toren stared at Erin and then picked up the rag and dipped it into the bucket. Erin sighed. She leaned back in her chair, wondering how much it would hurt if she fell over. It would hurt more if Toren dove to catch her like he had twice before. Landing on floorboards?Ouch. Landing on bony skeleton bits? Double ouch.
Erin closed her eyes, and then her eyes opened wide. She lost her balance and tipped forwards, smacking her face on the table. But she didn’t even process that.
An alarm. It sounded—no, itfelt like a tornado warning siren blasting in her head at full volume. But that wasn’t sound, it was the feeling, a high-pitched whine that told her she was in danger.
Erin looked around. Toren stared at her, holding the dripping rag in one hand. Erin knocked her chair over as she ran into the kitchen and grabbed the frying pan and a jar of acid. Toren looked up and dropped the rag when he saw Erin was armed.
“Something’s out there.”
He immediately dashed into the kitchen and came out with the sword he’d taken from one of the adventurers Erin had kicked out of her inn. Erin knelt next to one of the tables, heart beating out of her chest. The alarm was still going off in her head, and she feltscared.
Toren was behind her. He lifted the sword as he peered around the inn. He stared at Erin expectantly and pointed to the door.
“I don’t know where it is. But there’s something. Something bad.”
It didn’tsound like something was outside. Erin opened the door cautiously and peered out. She gestured, and Toren ran upstairs and returned in a few moments, shaking his head. She looked out her windows and then threw caution to the wind.
She ran outside, standing at the top of the hill, staring around at the grasslands. The sun was setting on those colorful swathes of grass, and the looming mountains cast long, ominous shadows. At night, soon, only the distant city would be a glowing dot on the horizon if you knew where to look. Erin’s eyes roamed for something—anything—spiders, Rock Crabs, moving in the long grass valleys and hills.
But she saw nothing. She ran around the other side of the inn and stared in the other direction. Then she had Toren boost her up and stared from the top of the roof.
After a while, Erin jumped down, and Toren collapsed as he tried to catch her.
“Ow! Get out of the way next time!”
He helped her up, and Erin stared around the empty grasslands. Nothing. The sun was still lowering in the sky, and it wasn’t even night yet. She couldn’tsee anything. But she had felt it, with a certainty that didn’t go away.
“What was that, then?”
For ten more minutes, Erin walked around, listening hard, eyes scanning the horizon. But she couldn’t see anything. And being out in the open was starting to bother her more than anything else.
Perhaps—perhaps it was a false alarm? Or whatever was happening was far away. Like…
“Maybe someone dropped a nuke? Or a magical nuke?”
Erin shook her head as Toren stared at her. No good.
“It might be nothing. Just—keep an eye out, okay?”
He nodded. Erin sighed and shook her head. She went back into her inn. But she kept the frying pan, the jar of acid, and one of the kitchen knives on the table.
Just in case.
——
Miles northwest of the inn, the dead poured out of the ruins on the hillside. They were howling—screaming through broken lungs, shrieking with voices no mortal, living creature could make. They ran through the grass, the evening sun at their backs. Zombies charged towards the city, arms outstretched, eyes glowing as they hunted for the living.
Ghouls bounded past them, leaping ten feet at a time, while massive Crypt Lords lumbered behind them, trampling lesser undead under their bodies. All of them—pale Wights, skeletons marching in ranks—moved with one purpose. To the city. To find the living.
To add them to their ranks.
The small shantytown that had sprung up around the ruins was gone. Broken timber and dead bodies were all that remained of the adventurers and merchants that had lived there. They had been cut down trying to flee in the first few minutes of the attack.
So many dead. The [Guard] unit had lasted ten seconds, maybe more. Brave Drakes and Gnolls had tried to hold ranks at the entrance of the tunnel—then realized the undead had no end.
It wasn’t hundreds, it was thousands.And they moved so fast—zombies should not run like that, not sprint.
This wasn’t just a horde of random undead monsters that had come together, or even a group under the control of a Lich or Crypt Lord. This was an invasion led by a single creature.
Skinner dragged itself across the earth, preternaturally fast. So quick it outpaced the Crypt Lords, arms churning through the dirt. It moved its grotesque body at the speed a horse could run.
Impossible.But each arm was so strong it churned up the soil—and its eyes glowed red. A crimson glow that made every undead it gazed upon move even faster. 
Liscor had seen the camp-lights around the ruins go dark. Even before Skinner appeared, they had heard the screams. The [Guards] knew what to do, and their task was simple.
Close the gates.Liscor’s were solid metal, impenetrable to even the smallest gnats. They were poised to close them—until someone shouted.
“Survivors! They’re coming! Hold the gates! Hold the gates!”
Desperate people were running ahead of the monsters, screaming, begging for entry. The Watch Sergeant on duty froze. The right thing to do was close the gates—but they could slam shut the steel doors in a moment.
“Hold the doors!”
A woman in silver armor collapsed as she ran through with the surviving [Guards], adventurers, and a dozen other people who’d outrun the horde. A Drake raced over to her and recoiled.
Her face—
“Get them to safety! Gates down!Move, move! Call the Watch Captain! Summon Klbkch—summon the Prognugator! Where’s Olesm? Raise the alarm!”
The Watch Sergeant shouted as the bells began to ring. The city was coming alive, and people in the streets looked up and began to ask what was happening. He waited for the gates to close—and after fifteen beats of his heart, realized something was wrong.
“Close the gates! Close—”
The Drake ran down the wall and then saw a crimson light glowing in the distance. He stumbled to a halt, fell to his knees—and froze there, trembling.
The gates!He knew they were open. Heard the undead drawing nearer, but something froze him. Froze the [Guards]—locked their trembling hands into place. It came from that thing, that malformed piece of flesh with staring gemstone eyes.
Magic—the Watch Sergeant saw his arms spasming wildly as he tried to move. And he couldn’t. Something was freezing his muscles.
[Terror]. A spell. He looked up and whispered.
“C-close…the…”
The gates had begun to move downwards when the undead first appeared, ready to slam. But they halted as the guards manning the gates suddenly threw down their weapons and ran, screaming. The Watch Sergeant tried to fight the pure fear welling up in his chest—and then his body took over. He ran.
And the gates to Liscor lay open.Skinner pointed a thousand undead towards the gates, and they surged towards it. Then the screaming grew louder. The walls of Liscor could have held an army at bay. But without the gates—
——
Was it smiling? Did it smile? Was it…alive? Did it think?
It surely did. The thing was moving the undead around like some kind of Chieftain. As if it knew how to fight.
See? Zombies in front, Ghouls leaping in packs along the side. It put the skeletons in ranks behind the first undead, Crypt Lords interspersed in vanguards. It even made those with bows stand and advance in the rear-guard, around it.
Someone was watching the undead pouring towards Liscor. And as if Skinner realized it was being watched, it turned slightly away from the Watch fleeing the walls in fear.
Skinner’s eyes shifted away from the gates, and Rags ducked down and pulled the Goblin next to her into the grass. She and her followers flattened themselves into the earth, making themselves as small as possible.
Fear touched them, making their hearts pound wildly. It was a familiar thing. The Goblins peeked out of the grass while Rags whisper-shouted insults at them and made them keep their heads down.
Only after a few minutes did they dare look again. Far below, the creature known as Skinner had focused its attention back on the city. The undead were already through the gates, and they could hear screaming even from this distance.
From their hilltop, the group of armed Goblins watched the carnage. Rags touched the sheathed short sword at her side, but only to make sure it was there. She had no intention of moving from this spot.
Skinner was moving slowly, now. He paused at the open gates in a throng of undead, guarding his safety. The northern gates were engulfed in fighting, but Skinner was flanking, sending more undead to the east to flood in through two points. This control of the undead was being done from the back ranks, Skinner out of range of most arrows and spells. But he was the most dangerous thing down there by far, Rags was sure.
She saw the twisted, grotesque thing made of dead flesh twist its head towards her again and immediately crouched to hide in the grass. The Goblins around her shivered and held their weapons more firmly. Rags shook her head as she watched Skinner slowly drag itself towards the city.
It was intelligent. And it was deadly. She knew it in her bones. But more deadly than the city full of Drakes and Gnolls?
There were many, many people in the city. She had once tried to guess with her sticks. If ten blades of grass was a stick, and ten sticks became a rock…
A rock was a hundred. A number Pisces had taught her. Then ten rocks became…a chess piece. A thousand.
There would be a hundred chess pieces’ worth of people in the city.A hundred thousand. But some were small like Rags, and some didn’t have weapons. Skinner had just led thirty-six chess pieces’ worth of monsters into the city.
Thirty-six thousand monsters, each one moving like pieces under its will. And there were no walls and a lot of bodies for it to add to its forces. Then Rags understood. Each dead Drake was another blade of grass for Skinner’s forces. Each Gnoll…a new zombie. She sat on the hill and watched as death poured into Liscor. Watching. Waiting.
Calculating.
After a few minutes, her belly rumbled.
——
“Hm. Rags should be here by now.”
Erin checked the position of the sun in the sky, shading her eyes as Toren laid out plates and utensils. Well, one utensil to be specific. All Goblins needed was a fork, and that was only because Erin insisted.
She’d cooked a fine meal of pasta and sausage, or perhaps it was sausage and pasta. Goblins liked meat, so she’d made the pot mostly that with some spiral noodles thrown in just to add color.
Erin hesitated. The food was warm, but she didn’t want to eat alone—or with Toren as the case may be. She could wait. Besides, Rags and her crewnever missed a meal. They were probably running from Rock Crabs or attacking helpless travellers. She should really talk to them about that.
Still. Erin glanced towards the window. It would be night in an hour or less. And the Goblins quite sensibly hated travelling at night.
“Do you think she forgot?”
Toren shrugged. He raised his head and stared in the direction of Liscor. He felt…something. A voice? A calling. But it was faint. He shrugged and continued setting the table. But Erin’s earlier warning…the skeleton looked up, and he felt thetug in the distance.
That decided him. The skeleton picked up a fork and eyed the tines, wishing they were sharper. Erin was right.
Something was out there.
——
“Close the gates!”
The streets of Liscor were filled with the dead. Civilians screamed and fled or barricaded themselves in their homes as zombies, skeletons, and other lurching forms ran through the streets. But the undead ran up against a wall of blades before they made it far down the streets.
The City Watch stood shoulder-to-shoulder, firing arrows into the crowd while armed Gnolls and Drakes held the front ranks back. The Captain of the Watch, the tall Drake named Zevara, shouted up towards the walls as she cut down another zombie.
“Where the hell are the other guards? Why aren’t those gates closing?”
She bellowed as she chopped down on a skeleton’s arm, severing the bones. The guardsmen in front of her closed ranks and threw the undead back. A Gnoll ran towards Zevara, and she turned towards him.
“Tkrn. What’s happening out there?”
He grinned desperately, the fur on his chest matted with blood and gore.
“Fighting, Captain. We’ve closed off the streets like you said. That’s stopping them, but there are larger creatures out there.”
“Crypt Lords. They’re extremely dangerous. Shoot them down if you can. But what about the southern gates? If they’ve fallen—”
Tkrn shook his head, and Zevara shielded her face as bits of flesh flew everywhere.
“Sorry, Captain. The southern gates are closed, and we’ve got [Archers] shooting down any undead that try to climb up. But all our guards on the north and eastern walls have fled!”
“That doesn’t make sense. Isaw those gates closing! What could have…?”
A zombie shoved aside a Drake and lunged for Zevara, jaw gaping wide. She stepped back, and Tkrn’s hand axe buried itself in its exposed brain.
“Close ranks!”
Zevara’s voice cracked like a whip, and the guards around her flinched. She pointed, and more warriors ran forwards to fill in the weak spot in the line. Not all of the Watch was fighting. Zevara had kept several groups back, spread around the city to fill in weak spots.
Now she raised her voice as more undead ran down the streets and hit the ranks of armed warriors hard.
“Are you Human cowards orguardsmen? Put your tails into it!”
The Drakes and Gnolls heard her and answered with a roar. They pushed the undead back several feet, and Zevara turned back to Tkrn as he wiped the hand axe on his fur.
“What else?”
His face was pale under his fur, but the younger [Guard] pointed back the way he’d come.
“The adventurers are asking what they can do. They’re fighting with our people—but poorly. There aren’t many good teams around. My people have bows. They’re shooting from the rooftops!”
“Have them pick off any stragglers that break through. We’ll hold the line here and push forwards. Now, where’s Relc?”
“He’s holding them off down Tesseract Street.”
Zevara grunted.
“Good. They won’t get through that way, then. But this isinsane.”
She pointed to the massive gates, visible from where she and Tkrn stood.
“We shouldn’t be fighting in the streets! If we can get close to those gates and close them, these undead will die outside the city. Why the hell are they stillopen?”
Someone else growled.
“Many of those large things are standing next to the entrance. We cannot kill them, and more keep coming.”
“Crypt Lords standing guard? That’s…”
Zevara trailed off. She glanced at the undead, and suddenly, a cold bit of fear wormed its way into her heart. She had a thought.
“The Necromancer?”
Tkrn raised his axe.
“I saw him in the city earlier today. I could track and kill him—”
“Not that idiot. I mean theNecromancer.”
“Oh.”
Tkrn looked worried. Zevara shook her head.
“If it was him, we’d be dead already. There aren’t any Giants or Bone Horrors or Ghosts or any of the other undead he brought last time. No—this is something else.”
She pointed down the street.
“This area is secure. I’ve got civilians holding bows, and a few mages are catching any Crypt Lords they see. You go and organize the adventurers. Tell Relc I want to see him, and find Olesm! We need his Skills!”
“No one has seen him this day. They saw him leaving the city, but—”
“If he’s here,find him! I’ve got to go. The east streets need help.”
Tkrn nodded and loped off. Zevara exchanged a few curt words with a large Drake sergeant and ran through the streets.
The undead had caught the city by surprise, but the city militia wasn’t like a Human one. Nor were the citizens. The undead had overrun the first few streets, but their momentum had halted once the Watch and groups of combat-capable citizens had formed barricades and halted their advance.
The problem was that the undead weren’t sticking to the streets. They went through houses, over rooftops—attacking the beleaguered defenders from behind. They were hunted down, but it added another layer of complexity to Zevara’s nightmare.
And the eastern streets were furthest from the guardsmen’s barracks. They needed reinforcements or else—
Zevara ran out of the alleyway just in time to see a Crypt Lord smash its way into a group of guardsmen and civilians, sending them flying. The bloated Drake’s corpse was immediately attacked from all sides and pushed back by a pillar of stone, but while everyone was concentrated on it, a pack of zombies ran past the line and towards the civilian archers.
The fifteen or so Drakes and Gnolls froze up in fear with one exception. Krshia calmly took down one zombie, shooting an arrow through its eye. She drew a wickedly long dagger and grabbed a second zombie while Zevara crashed into two more.
The last zombie ran past the two and opened up a male Drake’s scales with a devastating strike. He had a piece of sword buried in his hand, making all of his wild swings deadly.
The Drake fell down, screaming, and his companion backed away in horror. Selys raised her bow, but the zombie split it in two with a single blow. She screamed for help, but the corpse of the Gnoll ran at her, mouth opened wide to bite.
She raised her claws—but she wasn’t her Uncle.She hadn’t had time to get to her apartment and grab her steel fighting claws he’d given her. Sword it was. Selys pivoted, dodged the bite, and slashed with her claws, but it was a zombie and barely noticed the raking cuts.
Sword! She needed the sword!Selys dodged sideways for it, and the zombie whirled. It leapt, and the sword stabbed into its leg as Selys fell back.
Zombies didn’t do this! This was the work of some kind of advanced death magic. It was like every zombie was a Ghoul. She tried to wrench the sword free as its teeth touched her throat—
“Begone,pest.”
Selys screamed in horror as the zombie’s neck suddenly twisted around. The undead Gnoll collapsed to the ground, twitching.
“Just so we’re clear:I didn’t raise them.”
Pisces appeared out of the air next to Selys and Zevara, hands glowing with purple energy. Selys gaped at him, scales nearly white.
“You!”
“Ah. Hello to you, receptionist. Don’t wait to thank me for saving your life.”
Pisces gave Selys a mocking bow and then turned. He pointed, and two more zombies and a skeleton fell to the ground, necks broken.
Krshia bared her teeth as she hammered her zombie’s head into the cobblestones, breaking its bones until what she held wasn’t so much a head as bits of one.
She stood up as Zevara beheaded her opponent. The Drake turned to Pisces as Selys backed away from him. He raised his hands protectively, and a wall of wind swirled around him.
“I mean you no harm. And this wasn’t my fault! I was in the city all day, and I knew nothing of this—this event.”
The Drake eyed him. She shook her head and shouted to the guardsmen as they wavered, trying to form their line.
Another group of eight armed Drakes ran into the street. They rushed into battle with a roar as Pisces pointed, and another zombie that had gotten past fell down, dead.
“Believe me, ah, Captain. I would never jeopardize my good standing with your city. In fact, I am helping to prove my innocence. I—”
“I believe you.”
Pisces blinked. So did Selys. Krshia was firing into the crowd of the dead already.
“We have countless witnesses who saw the undead emerge from the ruins. Besides, I doubt a [Necromancer] of your level could reanimate more than five bodies, let alone a horde like this.”
Pisces scowled.
“I—”
He hesitated and glanced at Zevara.
“Um, that is correct. But this is rather inconvenient, is it not?”
She glared at him.
“Are all you Humans as damn crazy as this? Liscor isunder attack!”
He shrugged.
“They’re just the undead. Quite easy to subdue. I have every confidence your Watch will safeguard innocent civilians like myself.”
He turned.
“If you’ll excuse me—”
“Oh, no you don’t!”
Selys stomped on the hem of Pisces’ robe, and the mage stumbled. His arms wind milled frantically as he tried to keep his balance. He turned and glared at Selys, but she advanced on him, tail thrashing.
“You stay here and help! If this wasn’t your fault, then help us!”
Pisces hesitated. Zevara hesitated. She didn’t like the mage, but she needed all the help she could get.
“Can you do that back-snapping thing many times?”
He sniffed and clicked his fingers. Three skeletons fell down like dolls that had their strings cut.
“It’sneck snapping, and I have ample mana reserve. I suppose if it means exonerating myself…”
“Good. Do it!”
The Crypt Lord finally fell to the ground, splashing those nearby with toxic blood. Zevara cursed as those hit cried out and retreated to be cured. She ran towards the line of guardsmen, already shouting. Selys stared at Pisces, finger raised. He raised his hands.
“I understand. I will help. Stay here and, ah, try not to put an arrow in my back.”
She spluttered, but Pisces was already striding forwards. He kept a safe distance between the struggling fighters and the dead as he stared at the masses of the undead running through the streets.
“I assume I will be remunerated appropriately for this?”
Zevara turned her head and snarled at Pisces.
“Kill these things and I’ll give you a medal. Now start casting or I’ll slice your damn hands off!”
Pisces sniffed and conjured a flaming sphere into existence. He aimed it at a crowd of the dead as they surged down the street.
“I prefer gold, myself.”
He threw the orb, and fire consumed the dead bodies. The [Necromancer] smirked as the undead screamed. Fast or not, the zombies and Ghouls were still slow targets to him. He snapped the neck of a Ghoul leaping to one side, casually, bringing it down.
But who was making them so quick? A foreign [Necromancer]?What…
What had happened to Ceria?
Pisces stared towards the gates, and his smile winked out. Then—he heard the Watch Captain scream in the distance.
“Fall back! Fall back to Tesseract street!”
Whyever would she do that? They were holding fine with him here! Pisces turned to tell her they were losing a decent defensive spot—when he whirled around.
“[Fire Orb]!”
He shot a second spell into the dark street—then snapped his fingers. A necktwisted—and the flaming orb went out before it could strike its target. But the undead refused to go down. And Pisces couldn’t snap the neck of the too-pale Drake with huge fangs and long, grasping limbs that looked melted.
“W-Wight?”
His voice trembled. Pisces backed up. But that was a rare undead! Then he saw a Crypt Lord appear. His fingers snapped.
The neck—twitched. And did nothing more. Pisces stumbled back as the Wight ran forwards. Then he saw the second Crypt Lord appearing, and eight Ghouls bounded down. The [Necromancer] turned and ran.
——
“Something is wrong.”
Toren looked up from the floorboards. He was using an old knife to lever up bits of food from between the floorboards. Erin stared out the window.
“Can’t you feel it? Something is wrong.”
She pointed out the window. It was dark now, but there was a faint speck of light coming from outside.
“That’s Liscor. Why is it red over there? Is something burning?”
Toren walked over and saw the skies around Liscor were indeed glowing. And there was smoke, rising and barely visible in the moonlight.
Erin stared out the window worriedly. The pot of meat and noodles sat untouched on a table. She leaned over the windowsill and then grabbed at her stomach. The anxiety was getting to her in a physical way.
“I feel—bathroom.”
She pointed at Toren.
“Keep an eye on that, okay? If you see anything—”
Her stomach gurgled, and Erin ran out the door, leaving the skeleton by himself.
Toren hesitated. He looked at the knife and the floorboards. Then he carefully put the knife on one of the tables and reached for the sword he’d leaned against one wall. He opened the door and walked outside.
The skeleton had made it halfway down the hill when the Antinium seized him and ripped his skull off his body. The Worker tossed Toren’s skull to the ground and seized his sword. He left the flailing skeleton’s body and walked up the hill towards the inn.
——
A Ghoul caught a Drake’s halberd in one hand and punched him in the midsection with the other. The guardsmen gasped and collapsed as the Ghoul tossed aside the weapon and tried to race past the other guardsmen.
Zevara’s sword cut through the top of the Ghoul’s skull, severing the flesh and rotted brain. The Ghoul collapsed, and she helped the Drake to her feet.
“Watch the damned Ghouls! They’re strong enough to rip your scales apart if you let them!”
Another zombie ran at them. Zevara turned her head and growled low in her throat. Then she took a deep breath andexhaled.
A gout of fire leapt from her jaws and blasted the zombie off its feet. It fell to the ground, screaming and burning as Zevara coughed.
“Where are the damnedAntinium?”
The Watch had retreated back down another street, giving ground up as more undead flooded into the city. They were fighting well, and healing potions and a rain of arrows and magic had given them the advantage, but the undeadkept coming.
And the more dangerous ones had appeared. Wights, whose single touch would make you freeze up and fall over, helpless.Crypt Lords, who were so huge and tall they could sweep aside low-level [Warriors] in a single blow and break every bone in your body—or spit black poison.
The Watch was not equipped to deal with them. Or at least, they were well equipped, but they needed reinforcements. And those reinforcements were not coming.
The Watch was one half of the city’s defenses, but in truth, they only handled [Bandit] raids, criminals, the occasional monster pack, and so on. The landscape took care of most armies, but the other half of Liscor’s considerable defenses was the army.
The army…who were at Oteslia, leagues to the south! But even in their absence, there was another force, newer to Liscor, who could fight. The bargain that had made Liscor a pariah with every damn city in the south.
The Antinium. The Black Tide who had nearly overrun Izril! An entire Hive was in Liscor, and they were the true force to be reckoned with along with the Watch.
But the Antinium, always present in some capacity in the city, were nowhere to be found. She hadn’t seen a single Worker today…or the last few days.
Zevara growled again and coughed out some smoke. She walked backwards as the Drake found his halberd and joined the line of guardsmen and shouted.
“Tkrn! Where are you? Get over here!”
The Gnoll ran towards Zevara, panting. He was still drenched in gore, but now he was bleeding in places, dark blood covering his fur.
“Here, Captain.”
“Where are the Antinium? Send a message to the Queen at once! We need Soldiers!”
“That will not be necessary, Captain Zevara. We are here.”
Zevara and Tkrn spun around. Ksmvr walked towards them, two swords and two daggers held at the ready. Fifteen Soldier Antinium followed him.
Ksmvr pointed towards the failing line of guards.
“Join the battle. Kill all undead. Retreat if you suffer significant injuries.”
The Soldiers ran forwards instantly. They pushed aside the surprised Watch and civilians and crashed into the undead in a black wave of their own.
A Ghoul lunged at the first of the Soldier Antinium. The huge ant man grabbed the undead and held its shoulders with two of his hands. The other two punched downwards.
As Erin had seen, the hands of the Soldiers were more like spades or weapons than actual digits. They pummeled the Ghoul, breaking bones, stabbing through flesh with ease. The Soldier held the Ghoul down, pounding it into paste. When it was done, it stood up and grabbed a zombie and ripped its head off.
A skeleton stabbed the soldier Antinium in the back. It didn’t stagger as the blade buried and stuck in its carapace. It swung around and began ripping the skeleton apart.
Ksmvr watched the Soldiers fighting as the Drakes, Gnolls, and few Human adventurers staggered back, suddenly reprieved from battle. He nodded to Zevara as she stalked over to him.
“Watch-Captain Zevara. It is good to see you alive.”
Zevara was in no mood to exchange pleasantries.
“Where the hellwere you? And where are the other Soldiers? I don’t need fifteen of them, I need every single one in your Hive! Bring them out!”
Ksmvr calmly replied to Zevara as he kept one eye on the battle.
“As this is not a period of war or crises as declared by the Council, I must decline your request. The maximum number of soldiers the Watch Captain is allowed to command is fifty Soldier Antinium and a hundred Workers in a time of crisis.”
“That isexactly what’s happening! Or do you not see the undead? I am authorizing you to bring all your Hive! Bring the Soldiers and all the Workers then! We need barricades, fortifications—”
“I regret to say that is impossible at the moment. I have brought fifteen Soldiers. That is all that can be spared at the moment.”
Zevara gaped at Ksmvr. She opened her mouth, and smoke plumed outwards as she shouted at him in fury.
“Why by the damned Ancestors—”
Again, Ksmvr cut Zevara off calmly.
“The Soldiers guard the entrance to the Hive and the surrounding streets. We will let nothing disturb our Queen. She is in the middle of a critical process. The Rite of Anastases. She is hours—less perhaps—to completion.”
“Your Queen can take her damned ritual or whatever it is and shove it—”
Zevara cut herself off as the blades in Ksmvr’s hands twitched. Half of the guardsmen near her raised their weapons, but their Captain waved them away. She eyed Ksmvr and tried to modulate her tone slightly.
“This is a state of emergency. If we can’t push the undead back soon, they will overrun this place. Your Soldiers can buy us some time, but there’s not enough. We need all fifty and soon. More than that. We need all of them! Talk to your Queen. Tell her we needhelp!”
“I regret that is impossible. The Queen must not be disturbed at this moment. I am sorry.”
Flames trickled from Zevara’s mouth as she opened it in rage. Ksmvr held up one hand.
“As soon as our Queen finishes the Rite of Anastases, we will fully cooperate in the defense of the city.”
There was no use arguing with the Antinium, so despite the building heat behind Zevara’s eyes, in her heart…and her lungs, she bit off her reply.
“The Workers, then. We could use them. Not just for building. If they can fight—”
“They are unable to be summoned as well.”
“Why?”
For the first time, Ksmvr visibly hesitated. He clicked his mandibles together and stared at the battle. Already, the Soldiers had pushed the undead back the street, and two were attacking a Crypt Lord as it spat black blood on them.
“The Workers are in rebellion. Many have left the Hive and fought with the Soldiers at the entrance.”
Ksmvr lowered his voice as Zevara stared at him in horror.
“Already, three have become Aberration. We fear the rest may have as well. They are violent, and many are armed.”
“You’re serious.”
“Very.”
For a moment, Zevara’s mind was caught up with images of Worker Antinium ripping apart Drakes and Gnolls. Then she brought herself back to reality and stared at the dead bodies lining the street. She snapped at Ksmvr.
“If we didn’t have a horde of the undead trying to eat us all, I’d be more worried. The citizens are either in their homes or fighting with us. If these Workers kill a few zombies, I won’t shed any tears.”
Ksmvr shook his head.
“I fear the Workers are not in the city any longer. They are moving towards a Human. Erin Solstice.”
“The one who got Klbkch killed?”
“Yes. One of the Aberrations who escaped was intent on killing her.”
Zevara didn’t have to think about this one. She gestured at the undead. The Crypt Lord was dead, but the two Soldier Antinium who had killed it were curled up, arms and legs withdrawn as they lay on the ground, dead of the poison.
“Whatever the reason is, I can’t spare anyone. She’s not a citizen here, and we’re up to our necks in trouble. The Human will be on her own.”
Ksmvr nodded shortly.
“The Queen is all. She must not be placed in danger. Erin Solstice…is merely important.”
Zevara eyed him. The words he’d just said—she couldn’t dwell on them now. She pointed towards the Soldier Antinium as she signaled the guardsmen to form up.
“Will you stay and fight?”
Ksmvr nodded. He followed Zevara as she strode down the street, Drakes and Gnolls seizing weapons and standing to follow her.
“I will fulfill my duty as Prognugator within Liscor. However, my position will cease in a few hours. Another will take my place.”
“Until then, follow me. We’ve got to use this moment until your Soldiers all die.”
Tkrn fell into place next to Zevara, swearing, as the guardsmen and lone Antinium ran after the Soldier Antinium. Suddenly, things had gone from bad to worse. He looked around as the two realized—the relief they were waiting for wasn’t going to come.
And the undead were pushing into the city.If they tore into a group of civilians, a thousand—a thousand running, jumping, climbing zombies? Ten thousand?
Liscor had a hundred thousand souls in it.This was how undead apocalypses began. They had to hold the streets.
Alone.
“Anything I can do, Captain?”
She spat, so furious she trailed smoke.
“You heard the Ant. Looks like we’ve got no choice. Weneed to close those gates. Get Relc. He’s the only one who has a chance of cutting his way through. I’ll grab a squad and push up.”
The Gnoll nodded and broke away from the group. Zevara and the guardsmen rounded a corner and skidded to a stop. The Soldier Antinium had thrown back the undead, mercilessly cutting their way through them until they’d reached the main street down which the north gates were located. But there they had been stopped.
Zevara saw a Soldier borne down by the weight of a Crypt Lord and another hurling Ghouls to the ground as they swarmed him. She saw groups of guardsmen struggling to contain the main flow of undead. But that wasn’t what struck fear into her soul. She pointed towards the gates where something was dragging itself through the open stone doors.
Her heart froze. The sword in her hands grew heavy, and around her, the Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans shuddered and felt terror coursing through their bodies. All around her, guardsmen and civilians fell back, screaming, unable to fight.
Zevara forced the words through her numb lips.
“What isthat?”
——
It was nearly ten minutes before Erin managed to extricate herself from the bathroom and stagger back to the inn. She held her unhappy stomach and walked through the open door.
“Toren?”
The inn was dark. Erin stared around. The skeleton normally came the instant she called. Where was he?
“Hey, Toren. Where are you?”
No response. Erin didn’t hear the clicking of bones on floorboards. She stared around. He’d left the knife on the table. Had he gone out to fetch water?
Erin stared around the dark inn. He could at least have lit the lanterns. Or a candle. It was so dark—the only light came from the moon.
Where was he? And why—
Why was Erin feeling that same warning in her head again?
She spun around. Nothing. The grass shone in the moonlight from the open door. Erin relaxed. But then a prickling feeling ran down her spine.
She’d walked through the open door. But Toren always closed the door behind him. And if he hadn’t opened the door—
Who had?
“Hello?”
Erin backed up towards the door. Something moved in the shadows and shut it. She spun around, fists raised, and then relaxed.
“Oh. Pawn. It’s just you.”
The Antinium stood in the doorway, nearly invisible in the light. Erin frowned. Then she took another step back.
“Wait a second.”
The Antinium had four arms. And two legs. Pawn—Pawn didn’t have all his limbs anymore. But Workers weren’t allowed to leave the city unattended, and this Antinium didn’t have swords.
“Who…are you?”
He was familiar. At least, he seemed familiar, but he definitely wasn’t Pawn or Ksmvr. The Worker—if that was what he was—shuddered. He shook slightly and then stepped suddenly towards Erin. She backed up quickly.
“H-hello? Can you hear me? Who are you? What do you want?”
The Worker’s head twitched suddenly. Erin jerked back, and his voice came out, quivering with emotion.
“i aM AnTiNium. i haVe a NaMe.”
Erin backed up even further. That wasn’t what a Worker normally sounded like. The one in front of her was speaking rapidly, his voice surging and falling. He sounded—
Insane.
“You have a name? Um. Good. That’s good, right?”
He stared at her.
“I Am iNdivIDuAL. BuT i reJECT. I rejEcT aLL.”
“Reject? Reject what?”
He pointed at her with two arms.
“YOu. ThiS is yOuR FAulT.”
“Me? What did I do?”
The Worker raised his hand, and a sword shone in the moonlight. He walked towards Erin, still speaking.
“YOU DiD ThiS To me. yOu mAde Me THis waY. For yOU, I did tHis. bUT alL iS SuffERIng.”
Erin backed up, speaking fast. She tried to sense where her frying pan and jar of acid were, but it was impossible in the darkness.
“What did I do? I don’t remember—”
“yOU knoW.”
“Please—”
Erin took another step back and suddenly tripped over a chair. She sprawled to the ground and desperately tried to get up. But the Worker was too fast. He loomed over her, sword raised.
Erin kicked up at his groin, but the Antinium caught her leg. He pinned her down with three arms and held the last one up with the tip of its sword pointed at her face. Erin tried to scream, to shout. But her breath was gone. She stared at the gleaming blade as the Worker shuddered and stared at her.
“diE.”
The sword flashed towards her eye. Erin screamed—
And another Antinium seized the first and threw him off Erin. She gasped as the sword fell to the ground and rolled away as the two Antinium crashed into chairs, fighting, punching and kicking in the darkness.
Erin scrambled away and struck a table. She ran to a shuttered window and threw it open. The moonlight illuminated the room just in time for her to see one of the two Workers mount the other. The Antinium seized his struggling opponent’s head andtwisted with all four arms.
The neck broke. The Worker lay still. The other Worker stood up and stared at Erin.
She held the frying pan and jar of acid in shaking hands.
“Stay back! I’m warning you!”
The Worker walked towards Erin. She raised the frying pan, and he stopped. The Worker raised all four arms.
“Please. I mean you no harm.”
The words were familiar. The way of speaking was familiar. Erin hesitated.
“…Pawn?”
“I am not Pawn.”
The Worker shook his head. But he was not Ksmvr either. He knelt before Erin suddenly, and she nearly tossed the jar of acid. But the Worker made no move. He spoke to her, voice loud in the silence.
“I am Knight.”
“Knight?”
He nodded. The Worker stared up at Erin.
“I have named myself. I have chosen. I am Individual, first and last of my kind. I am Knight, and no other is like me. And I am here to protect you. We are here to protect you.”
Erin stared at him. The frying pan loosened in her grip, and she nearly dropped it. Her mind was spinning. She stared at Knight. There was something familiar about him, too.
“I—I don’t know you. I never—”
Knight straightened.
“Please, Erin Solstice. You must remain calm. We are here to protect you.”
“We?”
Movement. Suddenly, Erin saw it outside the window. She threw caution to the wind and raced outside, brushing past Knight. There she stopped.
Antinium. Workers. They stood around the inn, arms folded or holding weapons. Swords, maces, axes—and not just those. Rolling pins, rocks, large branches…even a large vase in one case. They stared silently at Erin as she froze in place.
“Who—”
Knight emerged from the inn and bowed his head to Erin.
“The dead are coming. Please remain inside. We will protect you with our lives.”
She looked at him.
“You? But who are you? Where’s Pawn?”
“He was kept in the Hive by the Prognugator. He remains. But we have come. We have chosen. We are Individual.”
“Individual?”
Knight nodded. In front of Erin, a Worker turned. He bowed to her, low, as far as his stiff exoskeleton would permit.
“I have chosen. I am Bishop.”
Another Antinium turned and then another.
“I too chose. I have decided. My name is Vladimir.”
“I am Calabrian.”
“I am Emanuel.”
“Call me Garry.”
“I wish to be known as Milner-Barry.”
“Belgrade. I will die for you.”
“We will all die for you. I am Jose.”
They spoke, one by one, in the faint moonlight. Antinium looked at Erin, all alike on the outside. But each one different, each one individual.
They were all familiar to her. And only now did Erin realize. She knew them. She knew them all. They had never had names, but she knew their faces, the way they played. She knew them.
They were her chess club.
Thirty odd Workers stood on the hilltop, ringing the inn, waiting. Erin could barely speak. She felt it. A surge of terrible emotion—whether fear or happiness or sadness, it was impossible to say. But she knew something had happened. They had all chosen names.
But that was only half of the question. The other half burned in her fiercely. She turned to Knight. The Antinium was staring into the darkness, splashes of green blood still coating his carapace.
“Why are you all here? Why now? Why tonight? What—what’s happening?”
He opened his mandibles to reply. And that was when the first zombie appeared out of the night and tried to take a bite out of Erin’s face. Toren leapt out of the darkness, crashing into the zombie, and the two rolled down the hill.
Erin screamed. More bodies shuffled and ran through the grass as the Workers moved to intercept them. And then the night was filled with the dead, and Erin found herself fighting for her life.
——
“Fall back!Fall back!”
Zevara screamed as Skinner grabbed a Drake and pulled his scales and skin off him like a child pulling a wrapper off a bit of candy. The horrific white face grinned down at her, sunken crimson eyes staring around layers of folded dead flesh. Fragments of metal clung to its chest, deflecting some of the arrows striking it.
She tried to raise her sword to slash at it, but her arm refused to move. Zevara had fought countless monsters, had faced and come close to death several times. But the terror that Skinner projected dwarfed anything she had ever felt before.
Zevara retreated, trembling, as Skinner’s hand swept around and grabbed a struggling guardsman. The female Gnoll had only a moment to howl in fear and agony before she was dead.
All around Zevara, guardsmen were retreating or dying. The undead flooded through the gates around Skinner, slaughtering the helpless warriors. Only the Antinium fought on, Ksmvr and the five remaining Soldiers blockading one street, but even they were falling back. No one could fight Skinner, and every time one of his hands swung down, someone died.
Zevara prayed they died. To live without skin—she hoped they died instantly, rather than imagine there was still life in the silent piles of bones and intestines and muscle that lay on the ground.
Skinner grinned at her. His folds of thick, white skin grinned at her too, the faces of the dead stretched to canvas his body.
She had to run. Zevara felt it in her bones, in her marrow. But she was Captain of the Watch. She couldn’t run. She had tofight. But her body wasn’t listening to her mind.
Skinner loomed over her. He tossed what remained of the Gnoll to the ground and raised his hand towards Zevara. She dove out of the way, dropping her sword, and the palm smashed into the ground next to her.
The impact knocked the Drake sideways, but she scrambled away. The red spots. It was the red spots on Skinner’s hand. Touch those and your skin would be peeled away. She had to keep her distance. She had to run—
Too late, Zevara saw the other hand circling around. She was running right into it. She tried to stop, but it was too late. Skinner closed his hand around Zevara’s scales—
“Relc attack!”
Something blurred past Zevara and stabbed into the hand. Dead skin fell around spear tip as a green Drake grabbed both spear and Zevara and ran nimbly past Skinner. Zevara gaped as Relc, Senior Guardsmen of the Watch, grinned toothily at her and twirled the spear as he ran.
“Heya, Captain! Mind if I take this one on?”
“Relc!”
It was a warning. Relc turned his head, and both he and Zevara hit the ground as Skinner swiped at them. His hand smashed into a wooden building instead and shook the foundations. Skinner stared at both Drakes, and Zevara felt her scales growing cold with fear. But Relc just shook himself and bared his sharp teeth.
“Soldiers, fall back. I’m going to need some room for this.”
He raised his voice, and somehow, it was audible over the fighting, over the terror in Zevara’s heart. Men and women looked up—and the Drake shivered as that crimson stare fixed upon him again, like a lighthouse.
Terror. Terror—death and terror!It was primordial, deep, and even Zevara wanted to void her bowels and flee. It took all her will to hold her sword steady.
But Relc just shouted.
“Clear a space. Hold the lines!”
He wasn’t Senior Guardsman Relc in that moment. The former soldier of Liscor’s army spun his spear. [Sergeant] Relc held his ground. And Skinner…stared at him, then seemed to realize Relc was immune to the stare. Relc’s body lowered.
“Not an officer. I hate fighting monsters.”
He was watching Skinner. The undead froze—then lashed out so fast his hands cut the air.But Relc was already gone. Zevara’s head whirled.
Where—
Skinner had missed as well. A second hand had come out, grasping for the Drake, but Relc hadn’t dodged left or right. He’dlaunched himself from the ground with his spear. He landed as the monsters swiveled, kicked a Ghoul aside—
Blurred past a Crypt Lord whose head vanished as Skinner ripped it off. A green figure, zig-zagging through the undead as if they were statues. Zevara heard someone mumble something. They had once had a nickname for him, hadn’t they? In his days in the army.
“The Gecko of Liscor.”
A zombie popped up on his right side, but Relc raised his spear and ran the undead Human through. He kicked the zombie’s corpse off his blade into a skeleton, punched a Ghoul to the ground, and looked up as Skinner’s other hand swept towards him.
Relc raised his spear and met the hand as it flew at him. His spear’s tip stabbed rapidly into the open red sores in Skinner’s hand. The monster jerked, and for the first time, Zevara thought she heard a sound come from the creature’s mouth.
No—not the mouth. It came from inside Skinner, a high-pitched shriek that echoed across the city.
It was deafeningly loud, but barely within Zevara’s auditory range. She clapped her hands to her ears, and Relc staggered back, doing the same.
Skinner swiped at Relc and caught him on the leg with an open palm. Relc roared and stabbed down with his spear, and Skinner let go just as quickly. The Drake staggered backwards, and Zevara saw part of the scales on his leg had been stripped away.
The Drake slashed Skinner’s arm, but the monster brought his limb out of harm’s way. A hand swung back—Relc leaned under it as it beheaded a Wight—
Fast as a sword’s swings. But the [Spearmaster] was watching it, reacting before the arms even reached him.
Again, Skinner fixed Relc with his crimson gaze. But though Zevara saw Relc shudder, he gritted his teeth and fought through the magic affecting him. He raised his spear and dashed towards Skinner, cutting and stabbing as he ran across the monster’s side.
Chunks of flesh sloughed to the ground as Skinner swung his hands at Relc. The Drake dodged away, keeping too close to Skinner’s body to be caught. The massive undead suddenly rolled, and Relc had to dodge away before being squashed.
“You bastard! [Triple Thrust]!”
He struck so fast Zevara didn’t see it, three lancing jabs. But the thick flesh—Relc yanked the spear out, cursing. He slashed, his arms a blur—stepped back. Then just backed away.
Why?He wasn’t doing any damage. Dead skin littered the ground, but Skinner just rolled back upright and attacked again.
Relc ran through the undead, stabbing and knocking them aside like flies as the hands struck at him. The zombies and skeletons weren’t able to even slow him down, and the Ghouls he neatly dispatched with a spear strike to the neck or head.
Suddenly free of Skinner’s gaze, the guardsmen around Zevara turned and formed another line. The Drake Captain found another sword and sliced a zombie apart as Relc blurred towards them.
Faster, stronger, and unaffected by fear. That was Relc, Senior Guardsman, the strongest guard in the city. Perhaps the world. A Level 33 [Spearmaster].
He paused in front of Zevara, panting. She saw red blood running from his leg and grabbed a healing potion from her belt.
“Here!”
“Thanks.”
He nodded and smashed the bottle against his leg. The purple liquid ran into the gaping wound, and he sighed.
“Damn. This isn’t good.”
“Do you know what that thing is?”
Zevara pointed to Skinner as the monster slowly rolled back upright, the undead around him forming a living wall. Relc shook his head. He was focused and barked a reply between gulps of a second potion. Stamina.
“Something ugly? It’s—strong. All that dead flesh is like armor. I need to slice it away to get at what’s underneath. But one touch of those hands—”
“Can you kill it?”
Relc paused and then grinned at Zevara.
“I can. Maybe. Probably. But give me some of those Antinium just to be safe.”
“The Antinium? Why—”
Relc pointed. Ksmvr was slicing apart zombies as the four Soldiers still alive covered his back. Even as Skinner rolled back upright and stared at Ksmvr, he kept fighting, undeterred by the crimson stare.
“The Ants are immune to whatever he’s doing. So am I.”
“Why’s that?”
Relc grinned and tapped his head with one claw.
“[Indomitable Will]. Anyone without a similar Skill should fall back. This thing—it’s projecting fear. Like a Level 30 [Mage]. Higher.”
“I got that. Can you take it out with just them?”
“I can try. But give me more [Archers] and [Mages] to get rid of the undead. I can’t have them on my backand that thing.”
“Just stop it for now while I call a retreat. We’ll set up another street and give you a chance—”
Zevara stopped, and Relc turned. Skinner was moving. The giant creature stared hard at Relc as the Drake raised his spear. But suddenly, Skinner turned. He pulled himself around and began moving back through the crowd of undead.
Relc crowed as Skinner pulled himself away. He twirled his spear and broke a skeleton’s skull with the butt end as he shouted at Skinner.
“Yeah, that’s right! Run!Run! Finally met someone with too many scales for ya, huh? Run away and…wait a second.”
Relc blinked. Skinnerwas leaving. Not just retreating; he was pulling himself back out the gates while a wall of undead protected his ‘back’.
“It’s…leaving?”
Zevara stared at Skinner in confusion. Why was he going?
“He must sense you’re a threat.”
Relc swore, and Zevara nearly spat fire at Pisces as the mage appeared out of thin air. The Human flinched, but pointed at Skinner as Relc glared at him.
“This creature is highly intelligent, guardsmen. It won’t fight anything that can resist its fear effect and poses a credible threat. Perhaps it could win, but it won’t risk that.”
“Why?”
Pisces shrugged.
“Most of the more valuable undead specimens have some kind of survival function built into it. I surmise this being may be the same.”
“Being? It’s not undead?”
“No.”
Relc grabbed Pisces as Zevara stared at him. The Drake shook the mage none too gently.
“Okay, but where is that thing going? Is it going back into the ruins or do we have to worry about reinforcements now? Even without that monster, we’re still up to our ears in undead!”
“I don’t know! I don’t know!”
Pisces fought to get Relc to release him. He shouted as the undead resumed their attack on the lines of guardsmen.
“Perhaps it seeks to wear us down first! Or maybe it goes after easier prey! I can’t tell!”
Relc released Pisces with disgust. He turned back to Zevara.
“Well, that’s just great. If it comes back with another horde, we’re cooked. But what could it want if it wants more victims? There’s only a few farming villages around here and they’re almost all north or west, noteast. So where—”
He broke off, eyes widening. Zevara looked at him as Relc turned towards the east. He breathed the words.
“Oh no.”
Pisces looked at Relc’s face and then east too. He blinked in sudden comprehension, and his face turned slightly pale.
“Erin.”
He and Pisces were starting after Skinner, and Zevara was about to call Relc back. Then—the monster paused at the gates. She saw it turn—and that ‘hand’ rose. Skinner looked at Relc. At Pisces. And its grotesque hand moved. Almost in a parody—a mockery of Pisces.
Skinner snapped its ‘fingers’—and the fallen undead began to get up. The ones hacked to pieces slowly began to rejoin. Watch Captain Zevara turned—and Pisces turned dead white.
“It just—”
A fallen Ghoul sat up, and Relc beheaded it. Then he watched the Ghoul fall over—the glowing eyes fade—and flicker back to life as the severed section of its head began to drift back to its body.
“Fall back!”
Contemptuously, Skinner hauled itself away as a second wave of undead rose and joined the first. Then the Watch was in full retreat, fleeing, trying to block the streets. And every single member of the living that fell rose once more. It left the city and the danger with a tiny bodyguard. Too much direct danger here. Skinner’s glowing gaze turned elsewhere, to the only other pocket of life it sensed. A handful of villages. And…
An inn.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T07:05:12)
almost at the end now, only a few more chapters.
… and then like 10 million more words
leave your typos here.
Typo (2023-04-29T21:58:06)
His arms wind milled frantically
His arms windmilled frantically
Wing (2023-05-17T10:37:49)
Ahhhhhhh!
Borantio (2023-06-16T20:12:45)
“A rock was a hundred. A number Pisces had taught her.”
Inconsistency with 1.02 where Rags says leaf=1, rock=10, stick=100, grass=1000
greycat (2023-07-25T19:37:40)
> The gates had begun to move downwards
I thought Liscor’s gates were doors that opened and closed (have to be watertight).  Definitely not a portcullis-type thing.
> Already, the Soldiers had pushed the undead back the street
back up the street, perhaps?  back down?  back along?
Saruul (2023-08-20T17:11:17)
There will be blood
Scrifty (2023-11-09T11:34:36)
Oh shit, Erin about to go through hell. Let’s hope her and her mid sized company can hold the fucker back.
Broock (2023-11-21T01:06:27)
Enfin Erin à des vrais gardes du corps. Par contre probablement pour pas très longtemps vus ce qui les menaces.
Les antiniums devraient aussi faire attention à leur utilisation de chrome(d’échec), au risque de se transformer en cyber psycho.
Toni (2023-12-06T03:38:16)
I’m still in disbelief of the entire horns of hammerad being killed. At the very least, I would have expected Ceria to live, cause like she’s been fleshed out so much more. Like shit, there’s even unresolved backstory for her… I can only keep hoping that she somehow survived (honestly a “somehow, palpatine returned” moment wouldn’t even bother me at this point lmao)
1sanguine1 (2024-02-15T17:06:44)
=) keep reading
Qrad (2024-04-08T19:28:32)
The skinner can’t keep up bringing them back if he’s far enough, right? Right? I’m not rying to spoil, I haven’t read past this point. But this is one of the very few ways I can imagine the city survive
lighto782 (2024-04-20T21:32:35)
Relc is socool. 
Jack (2024-07-06T21:10:44)
Rip, al those workers…
The acid can be handy against that monster I think.
lvlarcel (2024-09-25T16:47:25)
Huh, that’s the skill Ryoka rejected
AbraCadaver (2024-10-11T07:13:33)
If Ryoka wasn’t sent to the Bloodfields for him, I’d think The Necromancer was in that thing. This bastard’s using cheat engine.
Konrahd_Verdammt (2024-10-20T15:13:22)
With Skills, Classes, Levels, and magic being in the world EVERYONE (except Ryoka) is using cheat engine, so that’s fair, eh? ?
Sir_Box (2025-01-10T07:28:12)
Funnily enough, The Necromancer is probably like 5 times more powerful then Skinner
Ghalaghor (2025-12-16T20:59:15)
A Ghoul caught a Drake’s halberd in one hand and punched him in the midsection with the other. The guardsmen gasped and collapsed as the Ghoul tossed aside the weapon and tried to race past the other guardsmen.
Shouldn’t that be “The guardsman gasped and collapsed” instead?
But Workers weren’t allowed to leave the city unattended, and this Antinium didn’t have swords.The Worker raised his hand, and a sword shone in the moonlight.
So did he or did he not have a sword?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.61
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-61/

Why did the dead try to kill the living? Was it hatred?
Did they seek to defile the living, to drag them into the same unending torment of their lives? Did they envy those who still drew breath? Or was it a greater mystery? Did the undead simply want others to join them, to add to their endless numbers?
Maybe—perhaps—the dead simply resented the living. Maybe they remembered the past, and it hurt them. Or that they could understand the living and wished to ease their suffering.
It could be they just knew how ugly they were and didn’t want anyone to look.
Erin screamed as an almost completely decomposed Gnoll came close. He had no face. Nothing that she would use that word for. Just—rot. Horrible, black innards that still twitched and slapped together wetly as he lurched at her.
A hand seized the zombie around the remains of his ruined head. Ignoring the flesh and other things thatsquelched around his fist completely, Knight tightened his grip until something crunched and the zombie jerked and fell still. The Worker dropped the corpse to the ground and kicked the body away. He stood, protectively shielding Erin at the entrance of the inn.
Around the hill, the dead were struggling with the living. But there were no screams. At least, the Antinium did not scream. The dead did. They howled or made ghastly sucking sounds or sometimes groaned, but the screaming was what terrified Erin. She felt they shouldn’t beable to. The dead should be silent.
But they weren’t. If anything, it was the Workers who more closely resembled silent reapers. They moved in unison, fighting, blocking, forming a living line as they fought against the undead. Sometimes they spoke, but with a terrifying calmness of their own.
“Die.”
“Suffer.”
“Perish.”
Two Antinium gripped a zombie by each arm and tore him apart. Another seized a skeleton with two hands and ripped out its ribs with the other two.
They fought like machines. Uncaring machines that took apart the undead like a child taking apart legos. Sometimes, it was a clean dissection. Other times, they smashed the dead bodies to make them fall apart.
But for all that, they were like children. None of the Workers knew how to fight. They were extremely strong, but clumsy. And the undead may have been rotting, but they were all killers.
A Worker staggered back, arms grasping as a skeleton slid forwards, bashing at the Antinium’s head with a mace. It nimbly dodged the Worker that strove to seize a bony arm and raised its mace to crush the Antinium’s skull.
“No!”
The skeleton looked up, and a flying frying pan crashed into its face. The yellow flames in its eyes dimmed, and the Antinium took the chance to seize it.
Erin watched the Worker begin to dismantle the skeleton and stared at her hand. She hadn’t even realized she’d thrown the frying pan. But more undead were charging up the hill towards the inn.
“Stay behind me, please.”
Knight pushed Erin back as more undead crashed into the line of Antinium, this time from the back. The Antinium wavered as they struggled to hold the dead back. Erin saw one of the Workers slip and fall as a Ghoul tackled him. The undead began tearing at him.
He had a name. He’d told it to Erin. Magnus. Magnus as in Magnus Carlsen, a name taken from Earth’s chess champion. He fell down, and Erin saw his blood. It was green.
“No!”
She tried to run forwards, but Knight seized Erin by the waist and lifted her up.
“You must not. You must not put yourself in danger. We are here for your protection.”
Magnus fell, shielding his face. Erin pulled harder, but Knight refused to let go.
“He’sdying!”
“Yes. The enemy surrounds us. We are at a disadvantage. This must be rectified.”
Knight pulled Erin back and raised his hand. He spoke calmly.
“[Defense Formation].”
Magnus thrust the Ghoul back and raised his hand, ignoring the green blood that splattered the ground around him.
“[Attack Formation].”
He collapsed silently as a Ghoul finished tearing through his exoskeleton. The undead Drake pulled something out of Magnus and opened his mouth to consume it.
A scream of rage preceded a jar of acid by only a second. The Ghoul stumbled backwards, clawing at its face as the acid melted flesh away. He fell back, and another Antinium calmly hit him with a mop, sending him slumping to the ground.
Erin felt the effects of the two Skills hit her as she raised another jar of acid and threw it. She felt lighter—so much lighter! And it seemed as though she had suddenly grown a pair of eyes on the back of her head. She was aware of the undead around her, just as she was aware of how the other Antinium were moving.
They held the line. Even as the undead ran up the hill, the Workers met them, calmly ganging up on the individual undead in twos and threes. The Antinium had no sense of fair play, and the undead were hard pressed to defend themselves against three sets of four hands stabbing at once.
A Ghoul rushed past two Antinium and ran towards Knight. The Antinium raised his sword, but a skeleton leapt past him and knifed the Ghoul in the chest. Toren and the Ghoul fell, stabbing and biting at each other.
Erin spun. She lifted a pot and hurled it. A zombie staggered backwards. She had—shehad had quite a few pots and pans she’d seized from her kitchen, but she was running out. She’d hurled them into the crowd, trusting to her [Unerring Throw] skill.
Now the undead were falling, retreating. Erin stared as zombies began turning, running backwards. Was it a feint? Were more undead coming? She looked around wildly, searching for movement in the darkness.
No. No more undead were coming for the moment—they were all dead. Toren pulled himself away from the Ghoul, reclaiming an arm as the Ghoul jerked once and then lay still.
How many horrors had died here? A hundred? Two hundred? It felt like a thousand.
“Thirty-four.”
Knight said it calmly as a skeleton fell down, skull cracked open from one of Erin’s frying pans. She stared at the Worker as silence fell and the last corpse stopped twitching.
“What?”
“We have killed thirty-four of the undead. The rest have retreated. They will return in greater numbers, I believe.”
Erin stared at Knight as the Antinium calmly cleaned gore off of his sword. Around her, the Workers were helping each other to their feet, carrying the bodies down, and…digging?
Yes, the uninjured Workers were digging in the ground. Dirt flew into the air as they dug a long, wide trench around the inn. They were building a moat. Amoat.
“What’s happening? What is all this?”
Erin stared at the dead, at the Workers, and at Knight. She felt dizzy, sick. And not just from the carnage. Just a few moments ago, she’d been waiting for Rags, and now there were Workers with names and the living dead.
And the smell. Erin threw up a little in her mouth but refused to let her stomach heave anything else up.
Knight bowed his head to Erin again. He was like Pawn only—different. Physically, they were the same, but even though they had the same voice, the same body, and both had named themselves after chess pieces, he was different. Erin couldn’t explain why or how. She just knew.
“The city of Liscor and the surrounding area is under attack, Erin Solstice. A horde of the undead emerged from the Ruins and besieged the city around an hour ago.”
Erin stared in horror at Knight. She fought to make her mouth work.
“The ruins? Undead? You mean they came from there? Did something set them—”
Her heart skipped a beat, and her stomach lurched.
“Oh no. The Horns of Hammerad. They went in there. Are they…?”
Knight shook his head.
“Several adventurers reached the city alive. I do not know any more than that.”
Erin seized Knight by the shoulder, ignoring the fluids that coated his carapace.
“Any Minotaurs? Anyone with pointy ears? An Elf? Half-Elf, I mean.”
Again, he shook his head.
“No such adventurers were seen. The only ones who survived were Humans. A…captain of one of the teams. A woman wearing silver armor. And a few other Humans. No one else.”
Erin stared at Knight, wide-eyed. Her thoughts melded together and then shut down. Knight nodded his head at her.
“I am sorry.”
She did throw up, then. Erin bent down and hurled up her lunch and dinner. She felt a cool hand on her neck, steadying her, and as she gasped and cried, Knight helped her back up.
It took several minutes for Erin to regain…control of herself. She was crying, talking incoherently, clutching Knight’s hand in a death grip as Toren brought her some water. She drank it, spat, threw up, drank some more, and finally stopped.
She didn’t stop panicking. She didn’t stop the agony in her heart or the terrible loss. But she put it inside her for a while to focus on the now. Erin looked at Knight as the Antinium studied the trench, which was only getting deeper around her inn.
“What’s happening? How many zombies are in the city?”
He paused, and another Worker—Calabrian—volunteered the details.
“The fighting was intensifying as we left. Over thirty thousand undead creatures have attacked Liscor, and the Watch fights them in the streets.”
“H-how do you know how many…?”
She couldn’t see in the dark. It sounded so precise—Knight pointed left.
“One of our number, Bird, counted them. At least thirty thousand.”
Thirtythousand. Erin tried to remember how many guards she’d seen at the gates or patrolling through the city. There were so many of them, but against tens of thousands of undead? More than that?
She turned to Knight.
“Should we—I mean, can we help them? How bad is it?”
He shook his head and gestured to her inn.
“Going out would not be wise. The undead fill the grasslands and will attack anything living. They have come here and will attack again soon. We are here to protect you, but you must stay here.”
Erin stared at him in horror. She stammered, and her voice cracked.
“Me? But—I’m just one person. Why me?”
He returned her gaze seriously, black, faceted eyes intent on her face.
“You are alive. That is all the reason they need.”
“And they’re out there? Regrouping?”
“Yes. Can you see them?”
He pointed, and Erin looked out. There was little light anywhere—the stars and moon were the only sources out here, but her eyes had grown accustomed to the night. She looked, and the sight made her stomach tighten with fear.
Dark shapes moving in the moonlight. They filled the plains, moving slowly, a cluster of shapes surrounding something white that was approaching the inn.
“Oh gods. There arethousands of them.”
“Hundreds. They move towards us.”
Knight’s words sent a chill down Erin’s spine. She opened her mouth to say something and then froze.
“Hold on. What’s that thing in the distance?”
Erin squinted. It was the white mass the undead were surrounding. At first, she thought it was just a bunch of them moving together, but it was something else. It was far away, but coming…closer?
“Is it…a giant slug?”
——
The Watch of Liscor fell back, fighting, loosing arrows into the undead crowd, casting spells. Fighting, retreating.
Dying.
They were outnumbered and fighting across a wider and wider area. The gates had let in the undead like a virus. And so long as they had been contained to the first few streets, the battle had been even, perhaps even in the defender’s favor.
But with Skinner’s arrival breaking their ranks and the ceaseless influx of the dead, the streets had been overrun. And more and more dead had surged down alleyways, forcing Zevara to pull her warriors back further and further or become surrounded. And as they did, the scope of the battle extended until dozens of streets were locked in desperate combat, stretching thin numbers even further.
A sign of how the battle was going lay with the civilians. They were being evacuated to the southern section of the city—the children and those unable to fight, that was. Everyone else was fighting. Those with class levels and even those without.
They fought, Drakes and Gnolls and the few Humans, healing themselves with potions, making the enemy pay for each step with blood. But the dead were bloodless. And they just kept coming.
Zevara and twenty guardsmen fought down one of the main streets, trying to stem the flow of the dead. They weren’t enough, not for such a wide passage. But overturned wagons had barricaded part of the street and created a kill zone.
The problem was that the dead were coming over the roofs, scaling walls, running through alleys. Zevara had archers shooting down as many as possible, but the defenders would still have been quickly overrun were it not for the Human and Drake fighting at the front.
Pisces pointed, and another Ghoul jerked. Beneath his rotted skin, his spine twisted and broke, and the undead collapsed soundlessly. The [Necromancer] turned, and more undead fell down as if their strings had been cut. He had accounted for over half of the fallen dead lying in piles on the street. The other half were due to Relc.
The Drake stood in the center of the undead mob, spear spinning around him too quick to follow. He stuck a zombie through its head with the shaft of his spear, twirled the butt up to shatter a skeleton’s jaw, ducked another skeleton, punched a Ghoul hard enough to break its ribs, and then beheaded a zombie with a wicked cut from the tip of his spear.
Zevara cut down a skeleton and gasped as it cut her shallowly across one arm as it fell. She stabbed it until the lights in its eyes faded and saw the massive creature approaching Relc from behind.
“Relc!”
The Senior Guardsman spun around and hurled his spear. The Crypt Lord staggered back, the spear lodged deep within its chest. Relc ran forwards and seized the shaft of the spear. With a roar, he ripped it back out, kicking the giant undead backwards as he did. The Crypt Lord fell on its back, and Relc stabbed downwards, spear blurring until the bloated creature lay still.
He staggered back and ran back towards the barricade as the undead tried to encircle him. The guardsmen opened up a small gap for him to squeeze through, and then he was beside Zevara as they pushed the dead back.
“Damn.”
Relc coughed and swore as Zevara moved back with him. His scales were covered in black bile, and she instantly grabbed a potion out of one of the crates and handed it to him.
Relc took a sip of the potion, spat black liquid out, and drank the rest. He threw the empty flask over the barricade and nodded at Zevara.
“Thanks. I got some of the poison in my mouth.”
She scowled, but couldn’t put any of her usual force in her words.
“Be careful. If we lose you, our line will collapse.”
Relc grinned at her wearily.
“Hey, don’t worry, Captain Z. None of those things can scratch my scales. If there weren’t so many of them, this would be as easy as frying fish.”
“But there are a lot of them, and they just don’t stopcoming.”
Zevara hissed in fury, and her tail lashed the ground as she pointed.
“It makes no sense. They’re not congregating in one spot, and they’re attacking every side. Like a real army would do. And that guard they have around the gates is—”
“Not like them. I know.”
Relc’s eyes narrowed as he stared in the direction of the open north gate. Despite their best efforts, they hadn’t managed to retake it, not even with Relc. The dead around the massive metal doors refused to budge, and the gates were cumbersome enough to close on their own.
“It’s that damned skin-creature that’s doing it. So long as it’s around, they’re going to keep coming. If you’d let me go after it…”
Zevara shook her head curtly.
“You wouldn’t make it out the gates before they surrounded you. And that thing is too much for you to handle alone.”
He glared at her.
“And so we’re going to leave it? I told you, it’s going after Erin—”
“Do you want me to try and save one Human in this mess?”
Zevara shouted at Relc. He blinked, and she continued.
“No matter what that thing is doing, we can’t spare anyone to go after it, let alone you. If we knew what it was doing, then maybe—”
“Waiting.”
Zevara and Relc turned. Pisces stumbled back towards them. His face was pale, and his hair and robes were matted with sweat. He stumbled towards a cart holding water flasks and drank greedily.
The Captain of the Watch looked back towards the fighting. Without Relc and Pisces, the guardsmen were already beginning to be pushed back.
“We need you to keep casting, Human. If you can’t, we have plenty of mana potions—”
Pisces glared at Zevara.
“Potions do not cure exhaustion. Even my efficient spells tax me. I must rest.”
“I’ll go. The poison’s cured.”
So saying, Relc sprinted to one of the wagons and leapt. He kicked the skeleton that was climbing over it and landed on the other side, spear already blurring. Pisces drank more water, and both watched as Relc kept fighting.
Zevara glanced at Pisces.
“What did you mean? That creature is waiting?”
He nodded and wiped at his mouth.
“It is clear that these dead are protecting that skin creature in some way. It may have control over the dead or spellcasting ability—regardless, they act as convenient fodder while it takes the skin of creatures to sustain itself.”
“Then why did it leave?”
“The danger. As I said, your Senior Guardsman posed an actual threat. It realized this and withdrew. It will let the undead keep fighting until we are exhausted and it returns. Remember—for each one of us that falls, it has another minion to use against us.”
Zevara knew that. She was more worried about the trick it had pulled before it left.
“What about reanimating the undead we’ve already slain? How many times can it do that?”
Pisces shrugged. He looked as unnerved by that as she did.
“I’ve heard of undead doing that, but not even the ones I saw at Wistram could—it’s a spellcaster. But it cannot do that forever. Only a few times, I suspect. And it might not be able to control all the undead. The Crypt Lords are lesser leaders. The fact that greater undead than them haven’t been created is odd. So many dead gathered for so long together—”
“And why the girl? Why is it going out after that Erin Solstice? The one who got Klbkch killed?”
Pisces hesitated again, and Zevara wondered if he was about to lie. When he spoke, it was with clear reluctance.
“…She probably doesn’t matter at all. It’s simply how that creature works. He will eliminate every living being in the area and surround the city with his army. He senses her, no doubt, and wishes to eliminate any possible threat. Or perhaps it is fleeing east then north, towards Esthelm, to minimize the risk to itself.”
“Well. We may have time if that’s the case.”
Pisces opened his mouth, and his eyes widened with outrage. Then he looked at her, reallylooked at her panting for air, the screaming, embattled city, and closed his mouth and nodded.
“Yes. Perhaps. But we will be overrun soon if there are many more of the undead.”
It was a statement both knew to be true. Zevara shook her head. She raised her sword, feeling exhaustion in her arm. Flames trickled from around her mouth as she spoke.
“Drink whatever potions you need. Rest if you must. But get back to casting quickly, mage.”
She ran back towards the guardsmen as they struggled to hold back several zombies. Pisces stared after her and shook his head. He took a few quick steps back and then made his way to a pile of dead corpses that archers had shot off rooftops.
The skeletons, Ghouls, and zombies had taken the rooftops and smashed in their skulls or splattered on the ground when the arrows had knocked them off their perches. But as Pisces raised his hands, the shattered flesh and bone reknit, and the dead rose back upwards, unearthly lights appearing in their eyes.
Six zombies, three skeletons, and four Ghouls stood up, staring at Pisces. He pointed east, in the direction of the gates.
“Go. Avoid fighting until you reach the inn. Protect the girl. Kill any who would harm her. Go.”
Pisces watched the undead run towards the barricade, moving past the startled defenders. He smiled crookedly and had to sit down as the effects of the spell hit him.
“My, my. I suppose I’m a little too invested in that girl for my own good.”
He laughed and cast his eyes towards the sky.
“Well. A token deed. It will not amount to much. Not when…”
His voice trailed off. Pisces stared blankly at the undead fighting with the Watch. He was a [Necromancer]. He could sense how many dead were in the city and outside it, a fact he had carefully neglected to mention.
After a moment, he smiled again and stood up. His blood was burning in agony, and he felt nauseous, exhausted. Even a potion wouldn’t help him, but the undead still fell as he killed them methodically.
Pisces laughed as the dead fell around him, uncaring of the toll. They would die. All of them. The few living guardsmen and citizens couldn’t stem the tide any more than Erin would survive. He laughed and cast his eyes skyward again, perhaps for the last time.
“Ah, but what a wonderful night to die!”
He could have run. Yet…the [Necromancer] looked around. He had the [Invisibility] spell upon his lips. It would be simple to cast it and hide from the undead. He, of all people in Liscor, could probably evade them and escape with his life.
But—Selys was swinging a sword on one side, Zevara holding the line on the other. Relc was fighting ahead of him. Another, reasonable man might have fled.
“But I’m better than that. I am…”
The [Necromancer] whispered the words, and his head turned as his friendly undead ran past the ones under Skinner’s control. Pisces never finished his sentence. He whirled, waved his hand, and a group of zombies collapsed. He pointed, and the dead died. But they kept coming. And coming.
And coming.
——
“Oh god. What is that?”
Erin stared down towards the white shape moving towards them. Every time it dragged itself towards her, more horrific details emerged. At first, it was just a white shape, a sickly slug. Then it was a slug with arms, and then…a creature of some kind. But then she saw that its skin wasn’t skin but dead flesh packed together. And then she saw thefaces, stretched across the skin and…
They ran towards the Antinium, Skinner’s small army. They fell into the huge trench the Antinium had dug, breaking bones, climbing out only to be kicked back in by the Workers.
There weren’t many. Around a hundred or less. That’s what Knight had said. As if that wasn’t enough to bury them all in corpses anyways. Most of the undead had moved back towards the city. But the creature came on, dragging itself through the grass.
It left glistening chunks of itself behind. Pieces of dead skin. It horrified Erin more than anything.
But she had to fight. Erin lifted another jar of acid and hurled it at a Crypt Lord. The massive, bloated creatureshrieked and slapped itself with its clawed hands. But the acid ate away its skin, melting the massive creature’s outsides in a matter of minutes.
That was her role. Erin stood at the door of her inn, throwing jars of acid, pots, pans, knives, anything she could. She had one frying pan next to her as an emergency weapon, and she’d already hurled most of her chairs down the hill.
It was working. It was working. The dead were filling the trenches, but they hadn’t broken past the Workers yet. It was working—
Skinner had reached the bottom of the hill the inn was on. He raised his head and looked up. Two crimson eyes flashed at Erin, and suddenly, she knew fear.
Fear.
“No…no.”
Skinner’s eyes glowed at her under the moonlight. His gaze touched Erin and held her. It caught her and made her feel fear beyond anything she had felt. She was helpless.
She shook. Erin was consumed by horror, pure, unfiltered terror that paralyzed her to her core. The crimson stare was death. Hers.
She couldn’t even move. She couldn’t even scream.
Erin felt something tugging at her. Knight grabbed her and pulled her backwards, towards the doors of her inn. He shoved her inside, and she stumbled, partly free of Skinner’s gaze on her.
“This creature projects fear of some kind. Please, move back. We will handle this.”
Erin stared at Knight. She worked her jaw soundlessly.
“I—”
She wanted to say she’d keep fighting. But she couldn’t. She glanced outside, and Skinner stared at her. He was grinning, his toothless, empty mouth a gaping hole. She froze up, and Knight blocked the door with his body.
“Stay behind me.”
The undead surged forwards as one. The Workers met them as they tried to leap the moat and failed and knocked the undead into the pit. Several zombies managed to tug one Worker into the pit, where he disappeared under a pile of discolored limbs. But the line was holding.
Was holding.
Skinner’s gaze moved from the inn for one second. He seemed to regard the ditch and then looked back towards the inn. For a second, Knight wondered what had happened. And then the ranks of the dead drew back, and a larger creature lurched forwards.
A Crypt Lord stood on the other side of the trench. But he—or rather she—didn’t try to cross. Instead, the Crypt Lord began spitting, sending huge gouts of black blood raining over the Workers.
Several Workers hurled their weapons across the ditch, but they bounced off the Crypt Lord’s thick, discolored skin. It spat blood back at them, and the Workers shielded their faces ineffectually with their hands.
Suddenly, the moat was no longer a barrier but a liability. The Antinium could not cross to fight the Crypt Lord and instead had to retreat while it poisoned them.
Knight watched as two Workers fell, curling up into balls as the poison killed them. He stared as the undead swarmed into the trenches and up the other side. He sighed.
Chess was not at all like battle. There were some similarities, and the [Tactician] class leveled with chess. But it did not teach fighting. It did not account for unpredictability. Chess was a beautiful thing. But battle—
Battle was uncertainty.
“Ah. Alas.”
Knight made sure his body was covering the door. The other shutters around the inn were closed, and the second floor was also shut off. Any dead creature could break in, though. He gestured and raised his voice.
“Close ranks.”
The Workers stepped back, forming a wall around the inn. There were just over twenty left now, some injured, many without weapons. They had learned something of fighting, though. They would not die easily.
Knight turned his head slightly and saw Erin was still staring out at the undead as they cleared the moat. Her face was pale. He tried to smile, but all he could do was lift his mandibles slightly. What would Pawn say at a time like this? What was the right thing to say?
“Please stay inside. You will be safe here.”
She tried to say something. But Skinner’s stare paralyzed her, took away her words. Knight closed the door and put his back to it.
Twenty workers. A hundred undead creatures. Skinner. They would hold with all their might. As long as they could.
Until they could no longer move. Until they were no longer alive. Each Worker was resolved to die. That was simple. Knight only wished—he only wished—
He only wished it were enough.
——
Rags sat on the hilltop, watching. She was no longer watching the city of Liscor. That place would fall or burn. It mattered not to her.
Instead, she was watching a small hill covered in flickering motion. Rags’ eyes were good. Even in the night, she could see the Workers struggling against the undead. She was also good at counting. That was why, despite her entire tribe sitting with her on the hill, she did not order them to move.
It was a sensible choice. All of Rags agreed with that. Aside from Skinner, the terrifying monster that struck fear into her heart, the undead were too numerous, too deadly. Goblins weren’t good at killing things that were already dead, and they would have been outnumbered by the dead even if they joined the Workers. Not a good fight. So why fight?
All of Rags agreed with her choice, even if not all of her tribe did. The frightened, pitiful Goblin part of her told her to run. And the cold [Tactician] self she had learned told her the battle was unwinnable. Rags knew this. But another part of her hurt.
It was a small part. It wasn’t a practical part or a particularly useful part. It knew there was no other choice. But it hurt. And it distracted her as she watched the battle.
Absently, Rags’ hand went up and poked at her flesh. No. It wouldn’t stop hurting. She knew she couldn’t do a thing. So why try.
A Goblin shifted next to Rags. He wanted to go down there. But one glare from her and he stopped moving. She was Chieftain. She decided. And she had decided not to interfere. It was only logical.
She just wished that part of her would stop hurting.
Rags touched her heart again. There was nothing she could do. Nothing but watch. She would watch until the end.
That was all she could do.
——
Knight stood against the doorway, arms stretched wide, his entire weight against the wood behind him. His legs buckled. But he refused to fall.
The undead had crossed the moat. They had reached the inn itself, and it was there the Workers were making their final stand.
They were doing well. Well enough. The lone Crypt Lord had fallen, taking five Workers with him. But the remaining Workers fought together, shielding the inn, letting their strong bodies take the brunt of the assault to protect the fragile wood.
They had learned. A few short minutes—or was it hours?—of battle had made them stronger. They fought with weapons methodically, killing, guarding. They were holding.
It was just that the dead were relentless. And they clustered thickest around the door of the inn, seeking entry.
Knight blocked them. He took the swords and claws, not even bothering to block. He couldn’t move his arms anyways. He just had to cover the door. Simple enough. Simple. But so difficult.
Green blood trickled down his sides. He was cold. He had been stabbed. Was being stabbed. A group of the undead savaged him, stabbing, biting.
A Worker hurled a zombie off him. Two more joined him, and they crushed the others, breaking them, taking them apart like a building or a carcass to be butchered.
Knight tried to move, but felt himself sinking to the ground. No good. He had to stand. He had to be a shield. A Knight. He moved in an L-shape, but his name was more than that. He was a protector. A champion of the innocent. She had told him that. He remembered. He remembered everything.
One of the Workers paused before Knight. Knight struggled to remember his name. Garry? Yes, Garry. Named after Garry Kasparov, one of the greatest Grandmasters of all time. A good name.
Garry stood beside Knight as the others covered them. He spoke.
“You are dying.”
Knight could no longer feel his body. But he could see. Green blood—his blood—stained the ground.
“Yes.”
It was a pointless comment to make. He strained to ask the more important question.
“Is she still safe?”
“She is.”
“Good.”
There wasn’t much else to say. Knight’s vision was growing dark. But he struggled to move, to block the doorway with just a bit more of his body. It was important. He rasped at Garry.
“Protect her.”
The Worker nodded.
“Of course. Until we perish.”
“Good.”
The world was growing dark. And cold. But Knight didn’t care. He just wanted to play another game of chess again. He was sure he was better. And if—if she was alive, maybe she would remember. He had loved playing with her. Each time, no matter how few they had been, how short.
He wished he could play another game. He would open with the Danish Opening, risky, but push her as hard as he could. Just to hear her laugh in delight or praise him. If he could play another game in that warm room, it would be perfect bliss if—
Knight didn’t close his eyes. He had no eyelids to close. But he stiffened, and something left him. The other Workers took no notice. They were fighting, bleeding, holding the enemy off. Only one person noticed among the dead and the living. Only one person cared.
Erin.
——
They were dying. Erin sat in her inn and heard it. She knew it. They were dying.
All of them.
The Workers fought outside, so close she could hear them as they spoke. They were short phrases that tore pieces out of her heart.
“I have fallen.”
“My arm has been torn off.”
“Continue on without me. Protect her. Please.”
Passionless inflection. But not passionless words. She heard them fall and die, begging the others to keep fighting. To protect. Protect her.
It hurt more than anything else. More than being stabbed, more than physical pain. But she couldn’t move. She was rooted to the spot, unable to do anything but hide.
Hide in her inn while her friends died.
She didn’t know their names. She’d forgotten them as they’d spoken. But she knew them. She’d played chess with each of them. Taught them. Klbkch and Pawn had brought each one countless times, and Erin knew their every move in chess.
And they were dying. For her.
She tried to move her legs. They shook, trembling against the floorboards, refusing to carry even a bit of her weight. Her hands were the same.
They were dying. Shehad to do something.
Erin grabbed at her frying pan and then let go of the handle. She covered her ears with her hands and curled up. She was afraid.
Afraid.
The fear was overpowering. It wasn’t even a conscious thing, something Erin could fight against. It was like a basic math equation, an unchangeable part of the universe. If she fought, if she tried to fight, she would die. She couldn’t overcome that.
But she could still move. Erin felt it. She could run. The Workers would protect her. If she ran—
Something in Erin rebelled against the thought. Run? Run while they died for her?
It was the only sensible choice. But they were dying. For her. And that made running wrong.
Even if it saved her? No. It was impossible. They were all trapped. The undead were everywhere. That thing was coming. Running was just a slower death.
Erin shuddered. She had heard Knight’s last words. They cut at her, pulling pieces out of her soul. She wished she could move. She wished—
Her foot trembled and knocked against the table. Erin heard something clatter to the floor and flinched. She looked down.
In the moonlight, something rolled next to the chair and stopped. Erin stared at it.
She saw a chess piece lying on the floor. It was a broken knight piece, a Drake holding a sword and a shield, only someone had snapped it off so only the legs and base remained.
Slowly, Erin bent to pick it up. She held the chess piece in her hand and felt at the sharp edges.
She put the chess piece on the board. She stared at the two sides, white and black, bathed in the red light from Skinner’s eyes. Her heart was filled with fear. Her mind was broken by terror. But her soul cried out as her friends died.
Erin’s hand moved. She pushed the white pawn piece forwards. She hesitated and then pushed a black pawn two spaces forwards.
Pawn to E4. Pawn to E5. Bishop came next, to C4. A classic opening.
Slowly, Erin began to play. It was wrong. It was the wrong thing to do as the Workers bled and perished. But she played anyways, mechanically, playing out the game on pure instinct.
The pieces moved mechanically. Erin played the game, and time slowed around her. Time stopped. Time—
Time was a strange thing. It didn’t matter at all for entire days and mattered the world in a single moment where it flashed by. For Erin, time had always disappeared when she played chess. That was why the Skill she had learned was so fitting.
Such a silly thing. A useless thing. It made one moment longer. It was good for a little bit, but only that. It only made a second into an eternity. It couldn’t level mountains or grant her luck or do anything else.
It just made a moment immortal. So Erin played. She played as the undead slaughtered her friends and Skinner’s gaze touched her heart. She played.
A useless game. A worthless game. She lost to herself with half her pieces still on the board. But that wasn’t important. Erin reset the board and played again, moving the pieces with reckless abandon.
It wasn’t about chess. It was just about the time. Every second, fear etched itself into her mind, always present, always there. It was part of her and part of the endless games she played. Again. And again. Playing, always playing, until fear and living were one and the same.
“The king is smart and uses his head. For if he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”
Erin muttered the words again. She remembered her dream and the certainty of it. The dead Goblin Chieftain. The blood. The smell of oil.
Death and violence.
If she were a king, moving, fighting would only lead to her misery. And death. She had lost friends because she’d fought. But she would lose them again if she did nothing.
“If he moves, he’ll soon be dead.”
But that was just it. Someone died, even if the king didn’t. The king was a selfish jerk, letting people suffer in his place. Erin’s hand moved on the king and slowly tipped it over.
“I am no king.”
Erin stood up. The fear was still in her, still biting, still trying to hold her down. But it was part of her now. It still tried to paralyze her thoughts, but it was old now. There was something more important than fear. More important than pain or death.
“I am a queen. And this is my inn.”
How many minutes had passed? How many seconds? It felt like years, but the battle was still raging. The only difference was that Erin could move. She seized the frying pan and then hesitated.
Slowly, Erin walked into the kitchen and came back carrying a huge glass jar. It was one of the big jars she used to store the bulk of the Acid Fly’s acid. She pushed the door slowly open and saw Knight lying in front of it.
For a second, Erin wavered. The jar of acid tipped in her hands. She steadied it and then looked around.
The dead were everywhere. But down the hill, Skinner was looking upwards. He was commanding the flow of the battle. Like a general. Like a king.
Erin supposed that made her the other king. And this was check. Well. She was promoting herself to queen and damn the rules of chess.
Skinner stared at Erin. The crimson gaze fixed her, sending tendrils of terror into her to squeeze at her heart. But she had felt it before. It was an old trick. She lifted the jar of acid.
“Come on, you bastard!”
Her voice echoed from the hilltop, cutting through the sounds of battle like thunder. Erin surprised herself, but remembered her Skill. [Loud Voice].
Skinner didn’t blink. He couldn’t. But he seemed surprised as far as Erin could tell. His gaze moved sideways, and she sensed undead moving towards her. The Workers cut them off.
The jar of acid sloshed in her grip. Heavy. Without her [Lesser Strength] Skill, she would barely have been able to lift it. But she raised it up onto one shoulder and thenheaved it into the air like a giant shot put.
The glowing green projectile flew down the hill towards Skinner’s face, straight as an arrow. He raised his hand, too slowly. It broke on him, and green liquid drenched the giant monster.
Acid covered Skinner’s face and body. He screamed, a high-pitched sound that made Erin’s teeth hurt and the Antinium clap their hands to their ear holes. But he didn’t die. He ripped his own flesh away, tearing away layers of skin. Then he looked up at Erin andscreamed.
The dead flooded the hilltop, and Skinner shrieked in rage, pulling himself up towards Erin, hands digging into the soil and earth.
“Come on!”
Erin stood on top of the hill, frying pan raised, as the Workers surrounded her. Her blood was on fire. Her heart hurt. But she would keep fighting.
Skinner stared at her. Erin stared back. Neither one blinked. He was her target. She could keep fighting until he was dead.
She wouldn’t stop. She would keep going, regardless of fear or death.
Until the moment he stopped moving. Until her last breath. Until her friends were safe or they were all dead.
Until the end.
The dead rushed at Erin, and she raised the frying pan and hit the first zombie hard enough to break all of its teeth free. The darkness moved, and the dead were everywhere.
Everywhere.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T07:06:26)
leave your typos here.
Deli (2023-04-14T21:26:52)
Last stand.
Typo (2023-04-29T22:27:24)
A horde of the undead emerged from the Ruins and besieged the city
A horde of the undead emerged from the ruins and besieged the city
He will eliminate every living being in the area and surround the city with his army.
It will eliminate every living being in the area and surround the city with its army.
He senses her, no doubt, and wishes to eliminate any possible threat.
It senses her, no doubt, and wishes to eliminate any possible threat.
BertieD (2023-07-05T13:15:24)
Can this story please stop making me cry?
Saruul (2023-08-20T17:43:00)
Knight was my favorite Worker the first time i read this chapter and he is as glorious as i remember. The Skinner is such a good first villain and how it gets dealt with is just so poetic.
Broock (2023-11-21T02:00:51)
Yass, slay queen.
Pardon.
yagoldt (2024-01-15T03:31:50)
Oh damn ok Erin. Cook.
Drifter (2024-04-20T22:59:11)
“She could keep fighting until he was dead.”
The last word there, “dead”.
It’s about damn time fr.
Jack (2024-07-06T21:34:47)
Yes acid I called it, but it don’t seem to be enough…
SamArcher72 (2024-12-14T12:13:22)
go Erinn!!!!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.62
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-62/

She knew when the first skeleton cut her that she was going to die. Erin stared down at the open skin on her arm and wondered if she could push the two red halves together. She raised the frying pan and hit the skeleton with all her strength.
It fell down. Erin kicked it until the lights in its eyes went out. She was strong. Strong as a man? Strong enough to kill. She’d hit a dead Drake until the iron frying pan had dented and his skull had caved in and bits had squished outwards.
But the dead were everywhere, and somehow, each time Erin turned around, there were fewer Antinium around her. But there were always more undead. Their glowing eyes watched Erin, and their clawed hands sought her life.
Once, she thought she saw Toren. Her skeleton danced among the undead, sword raised, stabbing, cutting. His fellows seemed to only half notice him, only fighting back after he’d made the first blow. But he was only one, and she couldn’t tell him apart from the other skeletons.
Erin ran back and forth, ducking under slow swings, throwing the few jars of acid she had at the Ghouls as they bounded towards her, hitting skeletons aside, and seeing the black shapes protecting her. Each time a sword thrust at her heart or she stumbled, a Worker would be there, grappling a zombie away or seizing a Ghoul by the throat.
The girl fought, and every time she turned around, another Worker, another friend, was dying.
And then she turned around and there were only the dead. The few Workers that remained struggled alone, isolated.
Erin backed up towards her inn. Eight Workers came with her. The rest lay silent. They barricaded the doors even as the undead began breaking through the windows. Erin tossed aside the frying pan that was bent nearly out of shape and realized she’d torn the skin from her palms even as she grabbed a chair.
The dead battered at the door as the Antinium clubbed at arms and heads breaking through the shutters, and outside, Skinner’s crimson gaze lit up the inn. He was close.
Erin was bleeding. Blood dripped from her arms and legs. Something had stabbed her in one of her breasts, and she was sure she’d never heard of that happening in a story. She clutched at her bleeding chest and sat down.
Just for a second.
It was very dark.
——
Zevara stood in the center of the street as the undead rushed towards her. She took a deep breath and breathed fire.
A stream of bright flame shot from her mouth, incinerating the front rank of the undead and making the others stop to claw at their burning forms. Zevara kept up the stream of bright fire as long as she could. Five seconds. Ten. And then she had to stop and gasp for air.
The world was dark. Spinning. She couldn’t breathe. Yet the enemy had been stopped for a moment. But only a moment.
They were everywhere. And they had pushed the defenders of the city back, back, until they were battling down the main street, next to the barracks, outside one of the entrances to the Antinium’s Hive. And though the battle still raged on, Zevara knew this was it.
The end. Once their lines broke this time, there would be nowhere else to go. The children and those citizens not fighting would be exposed. Already, they’d been crammed like sardines as the guardsmen had them move further and further back from the fighting. Any more and—
Were the other streets already overrun? Liscor was massive. She had lost contact with Tkrn. Was this the last area holding?
It wasn’t her fault. That was what Zevara wanted to say. She’d done her best, damn it. With thousands of warriors she’d held off tens of thousands. Who could ask for more than that? The army wasn’t here, the damn traitors. The Antinium should have been.
But she’d failed, even though she was always going to fail. The Watch had never been meant to protect the city from siege. There were over four thousand in the city that held over a hundred thousand civilians. They were able to quell fights, catch [Thieves], stop [Bandit] raids—
But never an army. And especially not an army of the dead.
How many were there? Thousands. Tens of thousands. They kept getting back up. The living became the dead, and the dead refused to die. Stab wounds didn’t slow them. Fire melted their skin but had to crack their bones before they stopped. Beheading didn’t slow some skeletons, and the Crypt Lords could kill scores before they were brought down.
If. If the walls had been held, the Watch would have prevailed. If they had held the first few streets instead of fighting in every damned alleyway, they would have held the line.
If she’d let Relc try to kill Skinner, they might have pushed the undead out of the city. And if the Antinium had joined them, they might have won.
They were still fighting. Ksmvr’s Soldiers guarded several streets leading to their Hive. More warriors stood guarding the sloping tunnel into the earth, but none had joined the Watch. They were all back, protecting their Queen.
Another group of undead ran down the street. Zevara gulped down more air.
Damn him.Damn him. She’d counted on the Antinium. They were what had been needed, but he’d refused to send them out. The Hive’s Soldiers and the Workers would have made all the difference. They could field far more than three hundred if they needed to, but Ksmvr had refused. He was heartless. Not at all like his predecessor.
A Ghoul bounded ahead of the running zombies and skeletons. Too fast. Zevara raised her sword and slashed at its chest. The dead woman stumbled, but then raised a hand. Too quick, and her sword was caught on bone.
Zevara opened her mouth and exhaled. Fire ignited in her lungs and spilled out her mouth. It burned the air, the dead, and even her. It was her ancient birthright, but it was not hers.
The world greyed out and spun as Zevara stumbled. The Ghoul was lurching back, screaming and clawing at her ruined face, but then she lunged forward. A spear tip punctured the tip of her head, and she fell down.
Someone was at Zevara’s side. The Watch Captain felt a huge arm helping her up.
“Careful, Captain Z. You’re running low on air.”
Zevara gasped and shook Relc’s hand off. She tried to inhale air, but her breath was coming in short gasps. She gasped and clawed at her throat. She could barely breathe, but she had to. She spat fire again, and a crowd of the undead went up in flames.
Coughing. Gasping. It was pain, and she couldn’tbreathe. Zevara stumbled backwards as the undead seized the lull in the deadly blasts of fire and surged forwards.
Relc stepped forwards, spear blurring. He stabbed two zombies in the chest with blinding speed, pivoted, punched a skeleton down, and then raised his spear as another zombie lurched at him.
“[Triple—]!”
The zombie’s headexploded as Relc’s spear struck three times at once. The Drake caught a bit of flesh in his open mouth and gagged on the rest of what he’d been about to say. He spat, coughing, and whirled his spear around.
More guardsmen rushed forwards, and Zevara stumbled backwards. She’d given them all the time to rest she could. Any more and she would stop breathing, she knew.
She gasped for more air and then raised her voice. She had to know.
“Tkrn. How are the others doing?”
The guardsmen fought in front of her, a thin line of weary soldiers, blades and armor covered in gore. Zevara looked around.
“…Tkrn?”
The Gnoll was nowhere to be seen. She remembered she had stopped getting his reports. Zevara tried to remember where she’d seen him last. Running down a street to deliver a message? She shook her head.
Gone. They were all gone. Or going.
Relc fell back, cursing as the undead pushed forward. The thin red line grew redder and fell back as the undead pushed forwards. And this street was not alone.
Across the city, guardsmen fell back as the barricades broke. Ghouls raced over the rooftops, too many to be stopped by the few arrows and spells coming from below. They raced towards the streets where the citizens of Liscor were guarded by the wounded, sensing their prey was helpless.
“We’re out of healing potions.”
Tkrn appeared out of the chaos, limping to tell Zevara that as the Watch fell back another street. She just nodded at him. What else was there to say?
“Fall back towards Market Street. We’ll make a stand there.”
He nodded as the guardsmen ran or carried each other past Zevara. Relc brought up the rear, spear still blurring with speed. But even he was slowing down. Exhaustion was doing what all the undead could not.
“Relc. Can you…?”
He grinned at her. Everyone was running backwards—but the undead were sofast—he came to a halt.
“Leave it to me. Just save a spot for me when I get back, huh?”
She nodded and ran with her guardsmen. Back, back again. Relc didn’t need to say anything. Both she and he felt it.
A single Drake turned in the street, and a Wight hesitated. The [Spearmaster] stood there as a hundred undead poured towards him. Holding them for a moment so the Watch could regroup.
——
Selys Shivertail was a Level 1 [Soldier]. She had been trained, once, as an adventurer. She knew how to fight with her claws, and she had been mentored by great warriors. Heroes of her species, even.
But she had given that dream up as a girl. Now—she regretted it. Regretted every second of not having a Skill greater than [Swift Strike].
“[Swift Strike]! S-swift—”
She tried to use the Skill again, but she could only do it once every five minutes. Far, far too little for this battle. She swung instead and cut a pale monster lightly on the chest. It kept coming, and the spears of Drakes and Gnolls around her forced it back. Selys felt ashamed she’d been showing off to Erin. It was one thing to surprise her friend. But she was not ready for battle.
“Wight! Kill the Wight!”
Her arms were shaking with exhaustion as she fought with the civilians alongside the Watch. There were [Hunters], Drakes and Gnolls who had experience with blades skirmishing in the streets with the undead.
Krshia had joined her Silverfangs on the rooftops, shooting Ghouls and other undead coming up at them. They were reaping dozens with each minute, precise Silverfangs from the Great Plains. Selys saw a Drake aim a crossbow up, and the boltexploded through a Wight’s head.
“Where’s the Antinium? Where’s our reinforcements?”
He was screaming at the Senior Guard leading this group of volunteers. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark looked around as her partner, Jeiss, whirled his sword, slashing a zombie’s arm off and beheading a skeleton in the same move.
They fought well—against everything but the larger undead. Beilmark wasn’t listening. She gasped.
“My family—”
“Beilmark,focus! They’re safe!”
Jeiss and Beilmark were both parents and neither knew where their families were. Selys raised her burning arms, trying to step back into line, but the Drake with the crossbow yanked her back.
“You’re exhausted. Grab a stamina potion and rest!”
He was a [Veteran] of the army. Selys thought he’d said his name was—Menolit? The Drake was missing half his tail, but not from this battle. Grimly, the Drake reloaded his crossbow, sighting for stronger undead.
He saw one coming their way and screamed.
“Crypt Lord! Run! Run!”
It came at them in a lumbering run. This one was on all fours, and a huge head of eyeballs stared down at them past two maws of bone-teeth. Menolit fired—and his crossbow did not a thing to slow it down.
“Jeiss!”
The Watch’s finest [Swordsman] tried to confront the monster alone as Beilmark swung a club left and right, knocking down zombies running past the monster. Jeiss lunged—and his blade cut in a zig-zag motion.
“[Cross Slash]. [Swiftsilver Riposte]—”
He drew back, tail swinging wide as he stepped out the way of an arm—but the Crypt Lord opened its mouth and vomited that poison. Jeiss had to break off his chain of strikes—and he stumbled. With exhaustion? With wounds—
A limb the size of Selys’ body hit the Drake, and he went crashing backwards. Beilmark grabbed him as the Crypt Lord advanced again—and she dragged the screaming Drake back.
“Bones broken. Get to—get to—”
An apartment was sheltering some frantic fighters trying to get in. They had lost their protective cordon. Now—Selys saw frightened faces within windows slamming them shut as monsters began to claw on the residential street. The Crypt Lord was lumbering at them.
“Get indoors! Open up! Hold them off until help comes! Barricade the doors—inside, now! It’ll smash through everything!” 
Menolit was shouting at the others. He grabbed Selys’ arm—but neither one had time to get inside. The door was locked—and the Crypt Lord was coming.
Zevara and Relc were fighting down another street. Selys whirled—and the Crypt Lord came to a shambling halt. It stared at her, and she wondered if her wavering sword was scaring it.
Then she saw the bulbous, rotten eyes focus on someone coming their way. A short Drake leaning on a spear—and a tall figure that Selys recognized. For only one person had…rabbit ears.
“Dead gods and Ancestors. Atlast.”
Menolit sagged against a door. Selys didn’t answer him—Beilmark looked up and groaned in relief. But all Selys said was—
“Grandmother?”
Her heart squeezed with worry, but the Drake holding the spear ignored Selys but for a single motion with her claw.One side.
Then the Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild nodded to the furred man with rabbit ears. Liscor’s only Courier leapt into the sea of undead, and his fists blurred as he punched the headoff a zombie. He kicked a skeleton into pieces as the Crypt Lord spat at him—but he was gone in a second.
Hawk the Hare and Tekshia Silverfang advanced as the [Spearmaster] of Liscor, one of two in the entire city, lowered her stance. She faced the Crypt Lord side-on.
“[Spear Art: Tree Limb’s Reach].”
Her jab with the short-spear in her armselongated, and the enchanted blade struck the Crypt Lord as it lumbered forwards. The spear’s tip burst into flames, and the monster lit on fire. 
It still came on, and Hawkkicked it from one side, making the beast stumble.
“[Endless Spear Flurry].”
Selys’ grandmother stabbed and stabbed andstabbed. Eight, seventeen—Selys couldn’t count how many times she hit the Crypt Lord as it slowed, bursting into flames as her enchanted spear hit it. Then the Drake was leaping back, nimbly—before she clutched at her back. She strode back, leaning on her spear, panting.
The Crypt Lord tried to follow her and Hawk as the Beastkin disengaged, wiping gore off his fists. But it was burning—burning—
The streets cheered as the monster fell. But Tekshia just marched up to Selys and grabbed her granddaughter’s arm.
“You’re alive. Good.Block the streets! Is Jeiss alive? You idiot, we need you intact!”
“Guildmistress—”
“Back to the barricades!”
Menolit shouted, stirring everyone from their stupor. The Drakes and Gnolls rushed back as he bowed, deferentially, to one of Liscor’s highest-level fighters.
“Guildmistress Tekshia, will you help us here?”
“Can’t.”
Hawk was the one who replied. He wiped sweat from his forehead and grimaced as he got blood and fluids all over his fur. The two of them were panting.
“We’re fighting street-to-street against Crypt Lords. We have to go. Selys, stay here with Beilmark. If this street is overrun…run into the Hive or find a cellar.”
Selys’ grandmother was grim. Hard as stone even now—but her claw was tight on Selys’ arm. The Drake [Receptionist] wanted to cry.
“Grandmother—”
“I have to go.”
“Are we going to be alright?”
Tekshia was already striding down the street. She looked back at Selys and then jerked her head. Aflash of light made Selys look up.
“Guildmistress Alonna is holding them on another street. The Mage’s Guild, Runner’s Guild—keep fighting. Where are the Antinium?”
She looked for answers, but Jeiss, drinking a potion, just looked up bleakly. Tekshia gazed at him and then raised her spear.
“The Walled Cities were right about the Hives, then. It doesn’t matter. The Necromancer never took the city.To arms. Keep fighting!”
She began to run. Selys turned and ran back up the street as Hawk bounded after the Guildmistress. All of Liscor was fighting—there were [Mages] flinging spells down with the Gnolls, now. Butwhere were…?
——
The guardsmen met a larger force holding the entrance to Market Street. The burned out road had been torn up again, this time so that stalls and doors could be turned into another barricade. The Drakes and Gnolls who held this spot were exhausted, wounded, but the dead clogging the street were a testament to their will to fight.
Zevara took to the front of the line and looked back over her guardsmen. She knew she had to speak, to give them hope, a reason to keep fighting. She just had nothing left to say.
A voice raised above the shouting and ever-present noise in the distance. A calm, emotionless tone.
“Watch Captain Zevara. I must speak with you.”
Zevara turned and saw Ksmvr. The Prognugator of the Antinium strode towards her, two Soldier Antinium at his side.
His exoskeleton had been crushed on one of his arms, and something had torn open his side. A gauze binding had already turned dark green with blood, but he was otherwise unharmed.
One of the Soldiers limped as he walked, and Zevara saw his left foot had been half torn off. But the Soldier did not cry out or show any sign of distress. They halted before her, and Ksmvr nodded as if nothing was urgent in the world.
“Watch Captain Zevara. I regret that we must part ways now.”
She stared at him.
“What?”
“This battle comes too close to the Hive. I must pull back the Soldier Antinium from the streets to better guard the Hive. I tell you this as a matter of courtesy.”
Zevara struggled for words. The only reason they’d held on for so long was that the Soldiers were blocking off several streets. Without them—
“Coward.All of Liscor is fighting! Guildmasters are in the streets—the Free Hive swore to fight with us! We took you in when every city in Izril refused! You fought with us against Az’kerash!”
Tkrn howled at Ksmvr. The Antinium flicked his gaze towards the Gnoll and then away dismissively.
“I regret this decision. But I must prioritize my Hive. I hope you understand. Your duties are similar to mine in nature, Watch Captain Zevara.”
She stared at him. Tkrn was growling, but she put a hand on his shoulder.
“I understand.”
Ksmvr nodded.
“Good. I wish you—”
“I understand that you’re a coward and a fool.”
Ksmvr paused. Zevara raised her voice as the Watch around her looked around.
“We’ve fought and bled for this city and your blastedHive. If we fall here, everyone dies! But you won’t even give us more than a handful of Soldiers! Don’t you realize what’s happening? Or is your damned Queen not aware of what’s happening?”
The air around Ksmvr and the two Soldier Antinium froze. His hands touched at his sword hilts.
“My Queen completes her duties. As do I. Insults to her name—”
“Eggsrot your damned Queen!”
Zevara shouted at Ksmvr. She pointed at the destroyed streets and ruined buildings.
“We’ve kept Liscor safe! We’ve held up our end of the bargain—you Antinium swore to protect this city from attack! And where are you when we need you!?”
Ksmvr paused.
“I must protect my Hive.”
“Liscor willfall!”
“Liscor may. But the Hive shall never be taken, even if a hundred thousand undead should attack.”
What was worse, Zevara believed him. She cursed him, but Ksmvr remained impassive. He shook his head.
“Say what you will. But the Queen’s safety is—”
“Zevara!”
Relc shouted behind her desperately. A Crypt Lord had appeared down the street, from the wrong side. He must have broken through somewhere else. Guardsmen streamed towards him, shouting as Relc held off the undead coming from the other direction.
Zevara cursed and turned towards Ksmvr, but the Antinium was already striding away. She opened her mouth and then closed it. There was no point in wasting her breath.
The Captain of the Watch stared bitterly at Ksmvr’s back. She longed to plant a sword in it or strike at the Antinium, but that would just see her dead sooner. Instead, she turned. Drakes and Gnolls were already fighting the Crypt Lord as he spat black blood at them, slicing at them with claws made of broken bone.
Zevara raised her sword and ran back towards the fighting.
For the last time.
——
“Erin.”
For a moment, Erin thought someone else was shaking her. When she looked up into the dark eyes and saw the four arms of the Antinium, she remembered someone else.
“What?”
The Worker pulled her upright.
“You must not sleep. Here.”
He shoved something at Erin. She took it and stared at the red liquid. A potion…? A healing potion. Hers. That was right. Hers. She’d—bought it after that day.
“Drink.”
The bottle was at her lips. Erin swallowed, grimaced, and felt life returning. She was tired. So tired that the world seemed to call her back to sleep. But the potion made her live.
She got to her feet. The Worker helped her up, and she saw he was wounded. He was missing an antenna and two fingers on one of his right hands. His carapace was broken in places, but when she offered him the potion, he shook his head.
“Drink.”
She did, finishing the foul liquid and feeling life return with every gulp. Erin threw the bottle across the room and struck a skeleton in the face as it sought to climb in. It slowed the creature long enough for another Worker to behead it with an axe.
Erin looked at the Worker who had given her the potion. It seemed silly, with the undead clawing at the walls and howling outside, but she had to say it.
“I’m sorry. I’ve forgotten your name.”
“Bird. I am Bird.”
He nodded at her. Erin nodded back.
“I guess this is it, then.”
“We will protect you until the end.”
“Which is now.”
“Yes.”
She paused. Erin’s head was still spinning, but she looked around and saw only the dead. The undead, but also fallen Workers. Death.
Crimson light was what she saw by. Skinner’s glowing red eyes lit up the inn brighter than the light from the moon. Bird had taken his place by one of the windows, a sword in his hand, a buckler in another.
“There are few undead left. Many are moving towards the city.”
“But that thing is out there.”
“Yes. It is close.”
Erin peeked outside. She could see Skinner, his massive, obscene frame a shadow around the two red spotlights in the darkness. A guard of undead stood around him, silently waiting in the darkness.
“He’s waiting.”
“Yes.”
Bird nodded again. Erin looked at the undead. They were still bashing at the doors, the walls, trying to climb through the windows as the seven other Antinium moved around the room, slicing off limbs and bashing heads.
The inn’s walls were protecting them, for the moment. But Erin knew it wouldn’t last.
“We’ve got to go. They’ll tear this place down around us if we stay.”
Erin walked into the kitchen. She had one jar of acid left. She took it. Bird grabbed her arm as she walked towards the door. The Worker stared at her.
“It is death out there, Erin Solstice.”
She nodded. The darkness was scrabbling against the inn, breaking in piece by piece. She saw glowing eyes, fangs, baleful malice. It felt like she was dreaming again. A dark dream from which she’d soon wake. But the Antinium…if this were a nightmare, why were they so beautifully brave?
“Yeah. But it’s death everywhere.”
He paused, staring at her face. Another Worker turned.
“Better to place the enemy in check than suffer it yourself.”
Erin blinked at him and then grinned.
“Right.”
She opened the door. A zombie stared at her in surprise, arm raised to hammer at the wood again. Erin threw a jar of acid in his face, and he staggered back, screaming. She was nearly out of acid. She’d rained it all down on Skinner and the other undead.
She had a knife in one hand. It was sharp. Erin held it in her hand and thought she was dreaming. She stepped around Knight’s body, heart beating faster and faster. The knife was slippery in her hand.
Skinner looked at her, eyes projecting fear. Erin gritted her teeth.
“Go to hell.”
She ran out the door, and the eight Antinium followed her. Erin stabbed a zombie in the face, punched him, and looked up as Skinner’s massive hand flattened the undead Gnoll. Two glowing eyes stared down at her.
She raised the kitchen knife.
“Come on. Let’s end this.”
——
Ksmvr strode through the streets as the noise of battle receded into the dull roar of sound around him. He thought as he moved, considering all that was occurring and would occur.
Zevara and the guardsmen would soon fall. Perhaps the citizens in Liscor would make a stand. It was possible they might prevail—the undead horde’s numbers had thinned. But they were still a danger.
Duty towards Liscor and the bargain with Liscor obliged the Hive to send Soldiers to defend it. But as Prognugator, Ksmvr was able to determine whether such actions were wise. And with the Queen still occupied by the Rite of Anastases, he had determined her safety was paramount.
Zevara had cursed him. Shouted at him. Her anger was understandable, but there was nothing Ksmvr could do. His actions were the only sound choice.
…Weren’t they? No, of course they were.
They were logical. He knew that. The Queen had to be protected, especially when carrying out the Rite. He was quite clear in the priorities he had been given. Her life and the well being of the Hive were far more important than the agreement made with the city of Liscor.
He spoke to one of the Soldiers accompanying him. To speak to one was to speak to all.
“Pull all Soldiers back. The streets are meaningless. We must protect the Hive.”
The Soldier didn’t respond, but Ksmvr could feel the other Antinium abandoning their positions at the street entrances. They would retreat to the Hive, guarding both entrances within the city.
There were three entrances to the Hive, only two of which were known to the Council of Liscor. The third remained outside the city, buried by several tons of dirt. It could be easily excavated, but the undead had not located that entrance as of yet.
Ksmvr continued to consider the siege as he stood at the entrance to the tunnel, watching the streets for the undead as Soldiers ran past him into the Hive. The Antinium had food and supplies for at least a month of continuous operation, which made things simple. The creature that had appeared with the undead was still at large outside the city, but it had shown little interest in the Antinium.
Regardless of the outcome above, Ksmvr estimated that the Queen would be finished with her task by the end of the night. Then he could request further orders. If she wished the city to be cleansed, the Soldiers were fully capable of doing so. Otherwise, the Hive could easily be sealed off.
She might be angry. But he had done the most practical thing in lieu of orders. She would understand that, right?
Ksmvr did not worry about his Queen’s reaction to his decisions. He did not worry. He had fulfilled his highest priority, even if it meant sacrificing lesser commitments towards the city. She would understand, would she not? She had given him no other directives.
“The city is expendable. The rogue Aberrations are of little concern and may be hunted down in time. The innkeeper—”
He hesitated. She was valuable. The city was valuable. But—
“The Hive is all. The Queen is all.”
She would understand. He dared not risk her safety by reducing the Soldiers protecting her. She had givenexplicit instructions not to be disturbed at any cost. At any cost. He was following orders.
And hehad secured the individual known as Pawn. That was quite an achievement. Ksmvr remembered what the former Worker had said and shifted. He had been…unsure how to respond to Pawn’s words, as close to disloyalty as they had seemed.
“My judgment is not in error. My logic is sound.”
Reassured, Ksmvr nodded again. The last of the Soldiers were about to enter the Hive. But suddenly, they paused. And stopped.
Ksmvr stared as one of the Soldiers seemed to glance up at the sky, listening. And then, suddenly, he turned around and began to run back down the street.
“You. Halt!”
The Soldier halted as Ksmvr strode towards him. The Prognugator held one hand on his sword’s hilt as he stopped a few feet away from the errant Soldier.
“What are you doing? I ordered you to return to the Hive and guard the entrance.”
The Soldier stared at Ksmvr silently. Of course, he couldn’t respond, but Ksmvr sensed no difference in the Soldier’s thoughts. He was following orders. Following orders, but whose? Ksmvr hadn’t ordered—
Something brushed past the Prognugator. Ksmvr whirled, but it was another Soldier. And not just one.
Suddenly, the massive Antinium warriors were streaming out of the Hive’s entrance again. Ksmvr whirled.
“What are you doing? What is happening?”
They ran past him silently. He turned and saw them running into the city. Even as he watched, they began charging towards the undead.
“What…?”
A hand tapped Ksmvr politely on the shoulder. The Antinium turned—
A fist crashed into his face. The chitin on his cheekcracked with a loud sound. Stunned, Ksmvr fell down, hands grasping at his swords.
Undead attack? Here already? Aberration? Ab—
Ksmvr was Prognugator of the Antinium. He had been born to war, and so he drew both swords and daggers even as he rolled. He could not die. His life was important; he led the Hive in his Queen’s absence. But he froze as he looked up.
The world was different. Ksmvr felt it. In an instant, his reality changed. He looked up and knew. He felt his Queen’s anger; he sensed her ire in his mind. She had returned. She had completed the Rite. And he—
He stood above Ksmvr.
“You.”
The world began to shift.
——
Selys had never killed with a sword. She had been trained by Tekshia and her uncle, Zel, but never actually taken a life. Undead…undead were close enough.
How many had she beheaded today? Eight? Twelve? Her grandmother had told her she wouldn’t understand what it was to be a warrior until she took a life. She wouldn’t level until she had placed her life on the line and gambled with it.
Today, Selys Shivertail understood.The Drake staggered back and watched as the zombie fell, the hilt sticking out of his stomach.
The female Drake felt sick. But Krshia yanked the sword out of the dead Human’s body and handed it back to her. The Gnoll had the experience with this.
“Have you leveled?”
Such an odd question to ask as Selys’ arms burned, as the city was filled with fighting—but the Gnoll’s eyes were deadly sharp. If Selys leveled—maybe she’d be stronger. She surely would—
But there was no time to sleep, even a second. Selys shook her head.
“Not—”
She couldn’t breathe. So Krshia lifted her bow, shot an arrow, and grinned as she reached for another.
“Maybe after the battle ends, then, eh?”
Her fingers scraped her quiver, and the Gnoll woman looked down.Empty. Krshia’s smile winked out. She looked around, then ran back, cursing, calling for arrows.
After the battle ends?That assumed they were going to live.
It didn’t seem likely. Selys was behind the main line of guardsmen Zevara commanded, but already, the undead had attacked their spot twice. They were everywhere. Overrunning the streets.
“We’re going to die.”
Krshia smacked her on the head. Selys gaped as her hand flew to cover her head, but the Gnoll just snorted at her. She had been forced to descend to the streets—there were undead swarming over the roofs now, and half the city was overrun—the population squeezed into the other half behind the fighters. Or dead and moving upon their friends and family.
“Save your weeping for when you are dead, yes? We are not done.Fight. Fight until all is lost. If only my kin had come from—”
But allwas lost. More undead were struggling at the barricades, fighting to break through. It was only a matter of time.
Part of Selys wanted to throw down her sword and wait for death. But it would be a terrible death, she knew. She wouldn’t even die at the end of it. So she raised her blade awkwardly, waiting for the end. If she’d only been an adventurer, leveled in another class—
A voice. A shout. Selys turned, raising the sword. She’d long since run out of arrows. But it wasn’t another attack. Tkrn ran down the street, waving the axe in his hand. He was running at a sprint, but his eyes were open wide. And he was—smiling?
“The Ants! TheAntinium are coming!”
Selys looked at Krshia. It couldn’t be. They’d retreated. But now, another guardswoman had taken up the call.
“The Black Tide marches!”
“The Soldiers are fighting in the streets!”
Wildfire ran through Selys’ veins, giving her new hope. It couldn’t be. But then she saw them. Shapes. Moving out of the darkness. Not one. Not two. A moving mass. An endless stream of bodies.
The Antinium. They came in a wave, and Selys was reminded of the Antinium Wars. She remembered the same shouts she had heard as a child.
So again, the Antinium came in a wall of bodies. Beetle shells, insect eyes—mandibles shining under the moonlight and torchlight. An army without end or fear.
Soldiers ran down the street. They crashed into the line of the undead even as Selys watched, gaping. First twenty Soldiers filled the street, rushing at the enemy, and then fifty. A hundred. Thousands.
And they were not alone. Ksmvr, the Prognugator, was among them. He slashed at a zombie with his daggers, and suddenly, a Worker was next to him. The smaller Antinium seized the dead zombie and bore him down, and two more were suddenly next to Ksmvr, stomping at the dead Drake until it was paste.
Soldiersand Workers flooded out of the tunnel, an endless stream of black bodies. But that wasn’t all. The ground and streets began to ripple, and hands thrust out of the stones. The undead paused, and then a huge spade-like hand seized a zombie and dragged it into the earth. A Soldier Antinium rose out of the ground and finished ripping the undead woman apart.
The undead in the street hesitated. They were an army without fear, an endless tide of death that bowed to neither pain nor exhaustion. They would fight on even when they had lost arms or legs. They were pitiless, emotionless killers. But that was the nature of the Antinium as well.
Out of the tunnels. Out of the darkness. Workers raced next to huge, thundering Soldiers. They didn’t even slow down as the first group of undead appeared in front of them. The first Soldier smashed bodily into a Ghoul, knocking the smaller, dead Gnoll down. He didn’t pause but ran on. The dead Gnoll struggled to get up, but a Worker trampled him. And then another. The stream of Antinium did not cease.
A crowd of zombies met a Soldier. He ripped into them, shovel-like hands punching, gouging their weak flesh. Workers swarmed over another zombie, ripping, pulling him apart from every direction.
A Crypt Lord raised a clawed hand to shield itself. A Soldier leapt from a rooftop, plunging thirty feet to smash its knee into the Crypt Lord’s face. Bone and flesh gave way as the Soldier began tearing the larger undead apart. The Soldier stood up, carapace covered in steaming black blood. His right leg was shattered from the impact, and green blood oozed around the broken black carapace. He took two halting steps forward, smashed a skeleton to the side, and then collapsed.
The Workers and Soldiers paid no attention to the fallen Soldier. They surged around and over him, rampaging through the ranks of the undead, fighting with mindless fury.
The guardsmen and warriors in the streets stared. Hundreds of black bodies ran through the streets, killing, pounding,tearing.
The Antinium. They had come out of the Hive, leaving it practically undefended. They fought, overrunning the undead with a furious advance so fast that even the Crypt Lords seemed unnerved by the attacking insects. But why? Whynow when they had waited so long to—
Krshia pulled Selys out of the way as a group of Soldiers thundered past them. They barely noticed the Drakes and Gnolls. But one of them was leading the charge. Ksmvr paused as, ahead of them, Zevara blocked his way.
“You! What’s happening?”
The Drake stared at the Prognugator, but he shook his head. Selys saw the Antinium had cracked the chitin around his face somewhere. He looked—confused. She heard him raise his voice.
“We are attacking. We will drive the undead out of the city.”
“What?”
The look Zevara gave Ksmvr was incredulous, and she wasn’t alone. Selys had heard the Antinium had called all the Soldiers back. So why had he changed his mind?
Ksmvr shook his head helplessly.
“I did not order it.I did not. The Queen did not either. He—”
“Who?”
“He has gone to Erin Solstice with many Soldiers.”
“Who?”
Relc ran past Selys, his scales streaked with blood and grime. Selys grabbed at him. Relc nearly threw her off before he stopped.
“Relc? What’s happening? Why are the Antinium fightingnow?”
He looked at her, wild-eyed. Selys took a step back. She had known Relc for a long time, but she’d never seen him look like that. His scales were grey. He pointed.
“I saw him. I saw—he was leading them.”
“Who was? Relc?”
The Drake didn’t answer. He sagged, staring at the Antinium as they filled the streets, fighting. He whispered, so softly only Selys and Krshia heard it.
“He’s back.”
——
This was how it ended. In the last hours of the night, Erin fought outside of her inn, the undead and the Antinium mixing into a blur. She stared up at Skinner and saw death and horrors in his face. She raised a kitchen knife, a tiny weapon, and vowed in her heart to hurt him before she died.
This was how it started.
Skinner grabbed for Erin. She ducked and stabbed at his arm. Her blade cut a few inches into his dead skin and stopped.
Erin rolled out of the way as the hand came back. It still caught her a glancing blow, but the red spot didn’t touch her, didn’t steal her skin. It had taken two Workers already. Their carapaces had been torn away by Skinner and tossed to the ground.
A Worker caught Skinner’s hand. He knocked the Antinium away, but three more gripped his arm and stopped it. Skinner raised his other hand, and Erin threw the jar of acid.
The acid splashed on his face, and heshrieked. The sound went through her bones. She covered her ears as he clawed at his face, and the Antinium did likewise.
But something moved despite the ear-piercing sound. Toren ran out of the darkness and leapt towards Skinner, dagger in hand. He leapt onto Skinner’s face and began stabbing wildly. Skinner tried to shake his head, but he had no neck.
His eyes. Those crimson eyes. Toren clung to Skinner’s face, wriggling into the sunken sockets, tearing and cutting with his dagger as the giant creature tried to shake him free.
Again, Skinnerscreamed and, this time, ripped Toren away with a huge chunk of flesh. He hurled the skeleton aside.
Toren fell away with something red in his hands. But no blood. Skinnerhowled and struck after him with a massive hand, but Toren was already gone.
One of Skinner’s eyes was gone. In its place, a huge crater of dead flesh was all that remained. Dead flesh.
It was as if all Skinner was made of were just flesh. There had to be bones or muscles or—ororgans. But all Erin had seen as the Workers and she had carved bits out of the creature was skin.
Something struck her from behind. She turned, and a zombie bared rotten teeth, biting at her. Erin struck at him with her knife, but it wasn’t good for killing something already dead. It glanced off bone, and she screamed as the zombie grabbed towards her face.
A blue hand reached out and pulled the zombie backwards. A Ghoul—a long-dead Human with blue, moldy skin—pulled the zombie back.
Erin blinked. The Ghoul tore off the zombie’s head and then rushed at another skeleton. The group of the undead tore into their allies.
“What the—?”
Above her, Skinner was still clutching at his face. He was feeling at his eyes, as if he couldn’t tell one was missing. As his fingers touched the gaps, heshrieked again. His ruined face turned towards Erin.
Skinner swung at Erin, and she dove to one side. She scrambled to her feet and threw the knife in her right hand. It caught a Ghoul in the eye, and it fell back as a Worker dug into Skinner’s side. The Antinium dug at the hard, dead flesh like it dug at dirt, pulling away huge layers and pieces as Skinner thrashed and tried to reach the Worker. But they were too close, too hard to grab at.
More undead ran around Skinner, fighting Erin and the Antinium. But something was happening. Half of them seemed to be trying to kill the other half. Even as Erin watched, two skeletons bore down a Ghoul that had a sword stuck through its belly.
Erin seized the sword and dragged it out. It was heavy and unwieldly in her hands, but she hacked at Skinner’s arm with it. Bits of dead flesh flew everywhere.
Skinner backed up. He was trying to shield his body, but the Workers were everywhere, and the Human girl kept coming.
It shouldn’t be like this. She should be cowering. The Antinium should be dead. And his own undead had turned against him. It was all wrong.
But the girl ignored his fear. The dead had no minds to torment with horrors, and the Antinium were fearless. Skinner could only crush them, struggling to catch the Workers and undead.
He was just a slothful, hulking thing. He had no legs. He didn’t even have good hand-eye coordination. It was only his hands, his flaying touch and his aura of fear that were the threats. And Erin had come far. She refused to run.
She plunged the sword into Skinner’s arm. Deep. Nearly to the hilt. She hit something—something besides dead flesh. Skinnerhowled in agony.
He backhanded her, and Erin flew. She actually felt herself lift into the air before she hit the ground so hard she forgot everything for a second. When she looked up, he was raising a hand to squash her.
She rolled out of the way just in time. The handsmashed down, and she grabbed at it. There was no time to think. As the arm lifted again and Skinner searched for Erin, she leapt onto its head. The grotesque layers of flesh cushioned her, and she tried not to vomit.
She climbed the dead flesh, feeling it, slick and horribly cold beneath her skin. Erin raised the sword and stabbed down into Skinner’s head, clumsily sawing and hacking with the blade.
Skinnershrieked again. And only now, touching him, did Erin feel the vibrations coming from inside. She pushed the sword deeper and then cut again, levering out a square of compacted skin.
Below her, zombies began trying to pull her off. They crowded around her, but the Workers shoved them back, fighting them. Erin desperately clung to Skinner as he writhed, sawing away like she was cutting wood. She had already given herself two deep slices, but she desperately kept cutting away.
The friendly undead were fighting alongside the Workers now, and half were climbing Skinner as well, tearing into the large creature like she was.
Erin had just pulled another socket of flesh away when she saw something change. Instead of the putrid white and yellowed skin, something else shone in the moonlight.
Something red. Erin stopped. The piece of dead skin peeled away, and something raised its head within Skinner’s body and stared at her. She stared back.
“Oh.”
It was all she could say. Somethinginside of Skinner raised its head around the skin Erin had chopped away. Something wet and serpentine.
A dark red, eyeless face swung towards Erin. A segmented head with two long…antennae made of flesh seemed to drop down towards her, and a fleshy mouth opened, revealing sharp teeth.
Skinner—the real Skinner, the thing hiding in the puppet of dead flesh—slithered out of the ruined shell. Two long, whip-like tendrils followed the main body, long and thick roots of corded flesh. They were Skinner’s ‘hands’, and they were still coated with the black remains of the Worker he had seized.
Erin let go of the ruined flesh of Skinner’s face just in time. The red worm-thing lashed out, its tendrils scything through the air so fast she heard the whistling sound they made. They caught a Ghoul and cut clean through his torso, shattering bone, breaking flesh.
A Worker caught Erin as she fell. Bird. He pulled Erin away, handing her a knife from one of his hands. Skinner wasscreaming again, the wormlike parasite emitting that high-pitched wail, only twice as loud now it was out in the open.
“Oh god, oh god, oh god. Whatis that?”
Bird shook his head as Skinner’s blind head moved back and forth, the fleshy antennae twisting around.
“I do not know. It resembles a Flesh Worm, but larger and it is hiding in the dead skin. It is dangerous. Please. Stay back—”
A tendril shot towards Bird. He choked, and Erinscreamed as the tendril lanced through the Antinium’s side. She cut at the tendril with the knife, and Skinner screamed again and pulled the tendril out. Bird collapsed on the ground, bleeding.
Erin threw the knife. It spun towards Skinner’s head, but the red worm dodged the spinning projectile effortlessly.
Two skeletons ran at Skinner. The red worm-creaturehissed and lashed out with its tendril arms, scattering both skeletons. He cast around again and struck like a cobra.
A zombie was lifted into the air, and his skin was removed in a sickeningripping sound. Only, Erin was sure that was one of Skinner’s own monsters. The crimson worm slithered back to the layers of skin and pasted the zombie’s flesh over part of the broken skin, as if he were repairing a papier-mâché doll.
“Do not allow it to rebuild. Kill it now.”
Erin couldn’t tell which Worker spoke. But they all ran towards Skinner at once, slashing at the huge segmented creature.
Skinner whirled around, and its tail sent several Antinium sprawling. It seized two Antinium with its tendrils and ripped parts of their bodies away. It was impossiblyfast now, and it stabbed two more Antinium as they ran at it.
“No!”
Erin was on her feet. She scrambled for something to throw. Acid. She had to have another jar of acid in the inn. She ran towards it, but Skinner slithered forwards and blocked the entrance. It lowered its head andbit at her.
She ducked. She felt the smooth, sticky body of Skinner just above her, and then it rammed her. She hit the ground, stunned as Skinner raised its head. It regarded her, two antennae probing at her face, and then raised a fleshy tendril to spear her.
Erin couldn’t scream. She just looked at Skinner and held her breath. Waiting. The fleshy appendage rose and then scythed downwards towards her neck.
Death came for Erin and stopped halfway. A sword cut through the air; a pair of silvery blades. They flashed together, and Skinner reeled back, screaming. Yellow, pus-like blood oozed from the cuts, splashing onto Erin as she stared. She looked around.
“Wha—”
Someone was standing over her. An Antinium. But not like any she had ever seen. He had only two arms and a slim, graceful body, not like a Worker’s or a Soldier’s. In his arms, he held two swords she recognized, and he faced Skinner calmly as the red creature writhed andscreamed.
Around Erin, black shapes suddenly appeared out of the darkness, grabbing the undead and tearing them apart. Large Soldier Antinium. They ran after Skinner as the red worm retreated. But that wasn’t what captured Erin’s gaze.
She was still staring at the Antinium who had saved her. He was a tall fellow. A Worker, but too big to be a regular one. Some kind of Soldier? A new kind? But—
“Are you unharmed, Miss Solstice?”
For a moment, the voice was just a memory. And then Erin’s eyes widened. Memory. The Antinium tilted his head as he regarded her. Her heart froze in her chest and then began to pound wildly.
It couldn’t be. It was impossible. But the voice was the same. The way he talked was the same. His body was different, but he—
“Impossible.”
“You have fallen. Allow me to help you up.”
She blinked. He reached down and pulled her to her feet. She clutched at him, ignoring Skinner, the undead, and the foul-smelling pus clinging to her clothing. Everything.
“You—you can’t be. I saw you dead. You weredead.”
Her eyes were filling with tears. Part of her was screaming something wordless. Erin reached out, and her fingers shook as she touched the Antinium’s black carapace.
“You—how?”
He smiled. Klbkch of the Free Antinium sheathed his swords and bowed to her.
“True Antinium never truly die. And I…I have a promise to keep.”
The world stopped. The dark night ceased. Light filled Erin’s head. She staggered, and Klbkch caught her with one arm. She felt his cold, hard chitin on her skin. Smooth, hard carapace. An alien’s touch. An unnatural feeling.
But she looked up and saw a friend.
Erin stared at Klbkch. He turned his head and raised his swords. A Ghoul ran onto one of his blades while the other beheaded it. He turned to Erin.
“It is not safe here. Remain behind me, Erin.”
Then he turned, and this time, his swords swung not at Goblins but at a Wight, chopping through a reaching hand, spearing it through the head. Striking left, parrying a jet of bile from a Crypt Lord, sending the liquid splashing back as the silver swords moved.
The Slayer of the Antinium whirled the poison back, splattering the undead, and turned his head again, checking on Erin to make sure she was alright. But this time—he was not guarding her alone.
Erin was frozen there, unable to speak or even form a thought. Klbkch seemed to gesture, and two Soldiers appeared out of the darkness. They surrounded her while Klbkch gave orders.
“Harry the undead. Pursue that creature.”
“Oh!”
Erin stared as the Soldiers ran towards Skinner. The red, fleshy, slithering thing was trying to retreat towards its dead skin, but the Soldiers weren’t letting it. They tried to corner Skinner, but it seized a Soldier, ripped his carapace away, and slithered away from them, down a hill.
Skinnerscreamed in fury as he ran. And he was running, slithering down the incline, a freakish worm-creature from the depths of hell. But he was retreating, nevertheless. His body of skin was gone. The Soldiers chased him, pounding through the grass.
But they were too slow. Too slow. They’d wounded Skinner. One of his ‘hands’ was missing thanks to Klbkch’s blades, and he was bleeding and torn in a dozen places. But he was too fast. Without his body, he would get away.
“Do not slow! The creature must not be allowed to retreat into the ruins!”
Klbkch thundered at his Soldiers. But even Erin could see it. Skinner was too quick. And he was—it was—
The worm laughed. It let out a ghastly, staccatochittering that made Erin’s skin crawl. It looked back as it wriggled away, as if taunting Erin and the others. It laughed, mocking them.
Erin saw the molted flesh it had abandoned still had pieces of metal clinging to it? Armor? It was vulnerable, now.
Skinner had lost his undead. The Antinium were retaking the city. It had lost itsskin—but the flesh-thing was still mocking them. It could rebuild it all. If it got away—
Erin gritted her teeth. If she had a weapon or something to throw, she would have—but it was too far away. All she could hear was that taunting, echoing laughter. That high-pitched sound. She wanted to cover her ears, but they were already splashed by blood and worse. It was soloud, so repetitive. In fact—
“What’s that sound?”
Klbkch cocked his head. Erin looked around. She heard something else, another high-pitched noise echoing across the plains. It wasn’t coming from Skinner. It was something else.
“That sound. What is it?”
It was faint, but growing louder. It was a high-pitched sound, countless…countlessvoices ululating and screaming wildly.
Yiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyi—
Erin knew. She breathed the word.
“Goblins.”
They streamed down one of the hills, countless small shapes lit by torchlight. Light glinted off their weapons and ragtag armor as they ran towards Skinner, faster than it could run. It halted, rearing up onto its serpentine body, seemingly unsure of what to do.
As the Goblins drew nearer, Skinner lanced out. He skewered two Goblins and ripped the skin from another, but there were somany.
One of Skinner’s red, glowing eyes still shone, embedded in the carcass of flesh. That magical light seemed incredulous at the sight it beheld.This? But something else rolled in the depths of Skinner’s gaze. Sudden—abject terror. Erin could feel the fear. The Antinium ignored fear. And Goblins—Goblins were different. Goblins were always afraid.
They swarmed the massive worm, ducking under him as he lashed out with his tendril arms. He bit andscreeched, but the Goblins screamed too, louder than him. Skinner tried to wriggle away, but he was caught.
“No way.”
Erin breathed the words incredulously. But the Goblins came on, little green demons with eyes that flashed red in the moonlight. They were just pests. The lowest kind of monster.
But they were quick. And they were everywhere. For each one Skinner killed, five more were stabbing,biting.
They were no match for Skinner. No match for the undead. But they killed the wounded, attacked from behind.
They were cowards like that.
Skinner lashed out. He tore left and right, a fiend, a worm, a parasite living in dead flesh. He had come out of the Ruins, a horror from the past.He had led armies! His armor was gone, though—broken by a traitor. His remaining flesh—ruined. His endless forces—to be brought down by the lowliest monster? Impossible.
But the Goblins stabbed and stabbed, and his vulnerable skin bled.
He collapsed, borne down by the weight of countless small bodies. Skinner thrashed and screamed, but the Goblins drowned out even that. They stabbed, bit, burned him with acid and with fire.
Small jars of acid. They smashed them on Skinner’s side, leaping away as his red skin smoked and he writhed in agony. And fire—a flaming creature of fire was dancing round Skinner, burning him, making the red worm twist as the flames seared his unprotected flesh.
Rags. From her spot on the hill, Erin saw a small Goblin controlling the fire. Her hands glowed red, and her face and body were illuminated by the flame as the spell struck Skinner again and again.
She raised a sword that shone like gold even though it was bronze and stabbed him in the head. Skinner screamed then, and the dead howled with him. Then, slowly, he collapsed.
Skinner, the guardian of the Ruins of Liscor, the death of adventurers and stealer of flesh, opened his mouth to howl one last time. Rags tossed a jar of acid into his mouth, and he convulsed. She pushed the sword deeper, and his body jerked. Once. Twice.
And then he was dead.
The dead stood still, staring at Skinner’s remains. And then, slowly, they moved. Those closest to the living fought on and died. But the others walked away. Back, out of the city, away from the inn. Towards the ruins, down the long dark corridors, into dark places. Back towards the place they had died and risen. Back towards their lair.
Back home.
It was over.
——
Klbkch of the Free Antinium, Prognugator of the Hive, and Senior Guardsman of Liscor sheathed his blades as the last zombie stopped moving. That was who he was today.
Once, he had been called the Slayer of the Antinium. Centenium. True Antinium of Rhir…but today, he was Klbkch of Liscor. For it was Liscor he had come back to defend. Liscor…and an inn.
He stared around the battlefield quietly, making sure all the corpses lay still.
Erin stood next to him, not saying anything either. Just looking.
Death. She saw it everywhere. The corpses, the pieces and blood that stained the ground—
And the friends.
Knight lay against the doorway of her inn, arms stills spread outwards. Other Workers lay around him, still locked in battle. More still dotted the hill. Erin’s eyes picked out each one as the Soldiers collected the bodies.
So much death. So much grief and pain. But at least one small part of the world was right.
Erin stared at Klbkch. Her hands shook, but he took them in his hands and squeezed gently. His chitin was cool and smooth. An alien’s hands. A friend’s hands.
He gestured at her inn, still standing. Light played across its worn exterior, but it was home. Home. A place to rest. A place to be safe.
A place to protect. And after so long, her first guest had come back again.
Tears made Erin’s eyes blurry, but Klbkch just clicked his mandibles together and raised them. The closest thing he could come towards a smile.
They walked to the door in silence. Erin stared down at Knight and gently folded the Antinium’s arms across his chest. Klbkch watched her do it and saw her wipe away the tears.
Erin stood in the doorway and faced Klbkch. He looked at her and saw a girl. Perhaps a woman by some standards, but someone young. Her clothes were covered in blood and gore, and she was cut in places, bruised in others. She had been aged by violence and death and loss. But something still shone in them. Something bright.
There were many things Klbkch could have said. But none were quite right, quite fitting. So he said the only thing he could.
“Greetings, Erin Solstice. May I come in?”
And she smiled and wept and for a moment—
Everything was right again.
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T07:07:41)
Klb is back!!!!!
leave your typos here
DanCarbonell00 (2023-03-07T21:11:52)
“Hawk the Hare and Tekshia Silverfang advanced as…”
Silverfang?
Ally (2023-03-17T01:19:37)
The Gnoll had the experience with this. – the gnoll had experience with this–extra the?
Lazy_guy (2023-03-19T22:38:42)
Love the writing! long, detailed and epic fight chapter comes to an end!
Kechu (2023-03-21T20:33:54)
Hawk the Hare and Tekshia Silverfang advanced as the [Spearmaster] of Liscor, one of two in the entire city, lowered her stance. She faced the Crypt Lord side-on.
TekshiaShivertail
Thaecrasis (2023-04-18T22:23:57)
This was a masterpiece of a chapter! I was laughing and crying in joy when Skinner was killed by Rags, and defied and damaged by Erin, Toren and and the chess club Antinium.
And Klb somehow came back!
Skinner’s incredulity at his end was just perfect xD
I’m sure Calruz would have been SO proud of Erin
Typo (2023-04-29T23:06:29)
Her life and the well being
Her life and the well-being
HK-42 (2023-05-25T21:18:40)
Deleted
HK-42 (2023-05-25T21:19:43)
More of an inconsistency, but Erin mentions she has a single jar of acid left but then uses more than one jar.
BertieD (2023-07-05T14:46:40)
This was magnificent. Just amazing.
greycat (2023-07-25T23:06:05)
> She had been aged by violence and death and loss. But something still shone in them. Something bright.
Not quite a typo, but either “She” or “them” should be replaced by “her eyes”.
Saruul (2023-08-20T18:29:15)
Antinium are one of the best parts of wandering inn for me. Their discovery of self and relationship with Erin is just joy to read everytime. Some parts of wandering inn is not that fun to read or frustrating but Antinium are just peak.
Broock (2023-11-21T03:15:32)
Heureusement, L’écorcheur a été sympa et n’a pas cherché à voler la peau d’Erin.
Au delà de la “plot Armor”, je me demande si les Terriens invoqués dans ce monde ne sont pas tous simplement plus fort que les natifs.
Parce-que que Erin survive et endommage à ce point ce monstre d’écorcheur avec une poignée d’homme-fourmis, c’est fort quand même, surtout comparé aux échecs cuisants des aventuriers.
Ce qui est certain c’est que les Invoqués ont au moins quelques choses d’unique, de spécial en dehors de leur connaissance révolutionnaire.
Ah oui. Klb est rez. Yeepee(Si, si je suis content mais je suis moi aussi un homme fourmi, d’où le ton monocorde).
Toni (2023-12-06T17:57:08)
I had a suspicion, but it’s pretty cool that I was right. That “as long as the queen remembers him” line from Pawn way back when was just vague enough that I wasn’t 100% sure. And that’s good writing
yagoldt (2024-01-15T04:31:19)
Just like that? Well ok then
Arrk Mindmaster (2024-03-28T19:15:09)
“arms stills spread outwards”
arms still spread outwards
Ben (2024-05-18T20:59:36)
After being down to one jar of acid, Erin uses two – one on the zombie and one on skinner
“Erin walked into the kitchen. She had one jar of acid left. She took it.”
“A zombie stared at her in surprise, arm raised to hammer at the wood again. Erin threw a jar of acid in his face”
“Skinner raised his other hand, and Erin threw the jar of acid.”
Skymark (2024-07-12T08:30:06)
Typo: Tekshia Silverfang -> Tekshia Shivertail
Mr anderson (2024-09-07T07:56:34)
Je pense que l’écorchement est une action directe, s’il ne peut pas vous toucher avec ses étranges bras en forme de doigts, alors il ne peut pas vous écorcher et il est vraiment nul pour les déplacer, il avait aussi l’aura de peur qui faisait que tout cela n’avait pas vraiment d’importance car les cibles gelées ne peuvent pas esquiver
AbraCadaver (2024-10-11T08:27:40)
YAAAY I KNEW IT
RougeEmber (2024-11-27T03:54:14)
Hawk the Hare and Tekshia Silverfang advanced as the [Spearmaster] of Liscor, one of two in the entire city, lowered her stance. She faced the Crypt Lord side-on. Tekshia is part of the gnoll tribe today
SamArcher72 (2024-12-14T13:29:33)
MY Favourite Antinium’s back!!!!!
Ghalaghor (2025-12-19T12:18:19)
“You—you can’t be. I saw you dead. You weredead.”
?I saw you die.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.63
https://wanderinginn.com/2017/03/04/rw1-63/

Ryoka Griffin was in sight of Liscor when she saw the smoke and found the bodies.
She came across the Gnolls so suddenly she barely stopped in time. A few Goblins picking past the Shield Spiders already trying to drag the corpses into a pit-nest leapt away, screeching in alarm. Ryoka looked around for another ambush—but they just hefted their spears and armor and horsemeat and fled.
Horsemeat?Ryoka’s stomach lurched, and she nearly vomited as she gagged. She saw the remnants of the horses. And the Gnolls.
The Shield Spiders had been at them at least a day.Ryoka turned away, then saw the smoke.
“No. Did she do this? Did—”
Gazi the Omniscient?She was nowhere to be seen. The terrifying Named-rank adventurer that Ryoka had seen pursuing the Gnolls…
There was no way to prove what had happened. Not now. The Gnolls were stripped of armor and weapons. Ryoka remembered the grinning warrior with the silver fang on his fur. Rometh. She looked for him—
Nothing. There was just a horror of fur and blood and—insects. Spiders, competing with the Acid Flies that made the innards of the corpses glow. The flies and spiders ignored each other. The Shield Spiders would not try to eat the deadly flies. Both offended her to her core. Ryoka stomped a tiny spider scuttling towards a furred hand matted in blood.
“Get away from them. Get—”
She saw the milling cascade of limbs turn on her and ran as she heard the chittering. She would have gone back—but then she saw the smoke.
It rose ever higher from Liscor in the distance. She could not see the city well from the hill and valley where she had found the Gnolls. But she knew where it was.
“No. Nonono. It wasn’t her, was it?”
There was no way. But then—what about the Horns? Ryoka turned back to the bodies. But she couldn’t kill the spiders. If she came back, she might try to get someone to bury them. But…
“Ceria? Calruz?”
Ryoka began to run faster. She didn’t know that someone had observed her coming through the Floodplains. A silent woman with a claymore stood miles away and watched as Ryoka ran. Ran—seeking her friends.
But she was too late. The day Ryoka arrived was the day after Skinner died. She arrived as the funeral pyres were still burning the undead to ash. She saw the churned earth around Liscor and a ways away—a battered building that drew her eye. Torn and damaged. But standing.
An inn.
——
[Innkeeper Level 18!]
[Skill – Immunity: Alcohol obtained!]
[Skill – Quick Recovery obtained!]
Erin didn’t know that she’d slept. She raised her head and realized she was sitting down. Dawn had come, but she had only drifted off for a second.
The sky was still mostly dark. But light still illuminated the grasslands. Dancing shadows. Twisting flames.
Fire.
The Antinium were burning the dead. All of them. They had created a huge pyre of bodies and set it alight. The terrible, suffocating smoke fanned away from the inn, but Erin’s eyes still burned. Or perhaps it was just her grief.
The bodies of the Workers were gone. Sometime when she hadn’t been watching, the Soldiers had taken them away. Erin had asked one of the surviving Workers—Bird—where they had gone. He told her she didn’t want to know.
Now, Bird sat on the ground outside of the first bonfire, so vast and hot that it was baking the ground, splitting the earth and threatening to set the cold grass on fire. The heat and light reflected off his armor. Green blood had dried from terrible bites that had torn into his chest and arms.
But the Worker just sat there, staring up at the twisting column of smoke. It rose like some mournful creature, great and terrible and beautiful. But for the stench. Into that dark sky turning brighter with each second. Bird saw the beauty of it.
Erin did too—but it hurt too much for her to take in his simple, childish wonder. Even now, the other Workers that had lived looked up at the sky as if it could make up for that dark, horrific night. As if there were something still to believe in.
What would happen to them? What came next?
She was afraid to ask more. Even of Klbkch. He had barely left her side all night. Now, he stood on the hill, staring down at a large shape several hundred meters away.
Erin got up and walked to his side. He turned his head slightly, but continued looking down. Erin stared at the red, elongated form of the creature that had lived in dead flesh and led an army of the dead. It was still surrounded by the Goblins that had felled it. Many had paid with their lives. But many more were claiming victory, looting the undead and milling around. They had even torn the ruined pieces of armor away and were trying to beat the scraps into tools and armor for themselves.
Something was different about Skinner’s body this morning. He seemed…diminished. Erin stared down as the Goblins milled around him, and then she realized what was going on.
“Are they…eating it?”
“Yes.”
Her stomach roiled. But Klbkch was unmoved, and so too were the Goblins. They tore into the red body of Skinner, tearing him apart, drinking the fluids and—
She couldn’t watch. Erin went back to her inn and threw up in the outhouse. It was still standing, at least. It needed repairs. Everything needed repairs.
She sat on the toilet Pawn and the other Antinium had built and rested her head in her hands. She was so tired, still. She would have given everything to sleep. But sleep was a luxury, and she owed a debt of pain.
First things first. Her…level. Yes, she’d leveled up three times. Was that a lot? Probably. And she had new skills.
They were an [Innkeeper]’s skills. And they were worthless. Trash.
“Shit.”
Yes. Erin glanced at the wood walls of the outhouse. Less than crap. That was how she felt about her levels and skills at the moment.
It felt wrong to level when her friends had died. It felt wrong to be stronger in exchange for killing things. But there was nothing Erin could do about it. She felt like vomiting or punching a hole in the wall of the outhouse. She nearly did, but stopped herself.
Erin walked back out and stood next to Klbkch. After a while, she had the courage to ask him what she couldn’t last night.
“How many?”
He looked at her, and Erin wondered if he was going to lie. But after a second, he spoke again.
She listened to the numbers. When they were just numbers, it didn’t seem so bad. But when she stared at the bodies, it was too terrible to be counted.
Twenty-seven Goblins lay in the grass. Too many. Even in Skinner’s last moments, he had killed with terrible ease.
Of the thirty-two Workers that had chosen to save her, four remained. Bird, Garry, Belgrade, and Anand. They lay in her inn or sat propped up, wounds covered by some kind of sticky red substance. The Antinium had little in the way of medicine, but they were tough. They would heal.
Less than a hundred people had died around Erin’s inn. Too many, but in the city, it had been worse, or so Klbkch told her.
“Over two hundred guardsmen and nearly a thousand civilians perished before the Hive was mobilized. Had they broken the Watch Captain’s lines, the number would be tenfold despite our sortie. She acted very bravely.”
She hadn’t even known there were that many guardsmen in the city. But they’d had healing potions and armor and—it was just a number.
“How many Antinium? Your people…?”
“Three hundred sixty-five Soldiers and a hundred and forty-seven Workers. Nearly half again as many are wounded, but the losses were quite minimal.”
“…Really?”
She couldn’t imagine that many. The number, yes. But so many…if she thought of each one being a member of her chess club, it was too many. One was too many to callminimal.
Yet Klbkch seemed to think it was some kind of grand victory.
He shrugged.
“A war would be tenfold higher at the very least. A hundredfold. It was a small price to pay and would have been smaller still had my predecessor not erred. Had we fought alongside the Watch, we would have pushed the undead back without taking nearly so many losses. Had they held the gates, less than a hundred might have died.”
“Why didn’t you, then? I mean—he. Ksmvr. Ksmvr…didn’t fight?”
A pause. Klbkch clicked his mandibles softly. He made her want to hug him with all her strength, and he was simultaneously frightening. She had seen him cutting down undead after undead, and now she understood his nickname.
Slayer.This morning, he talked as if he had merely had a long night. He had—something of Gazi in him. And his voice was cold as it referred to his replacement.
“Ksmvr believed the Queen had to be protected above all else. He withdrew all Soldiers into the Hive while she finished the Rite of Anastases.”
“Why did he do that? What Rite?”
“The process to revive me. It was a delicate matter that occupied the Queen’s full attention. Without her guidance, Ksmvr did what he deemed best. He chose wrongly.”
“Oh.”
Klbkch nodded calmly. He went on, listing the things he had to do on one hand.
“There is much that must be done. Reparations must be made to the city. The Antinium did not honor their promise. We must rebuild, put up barriers outside the Ruins.”
“And you’re going to do it? You’re the new Prognugator? Or does Ksmvr still have that job?”
“He does not.”
Klbkch shook his head as he watched a Soldier dragging a body towards the burning heap.
“Ksmvr was a fool. He nearly cost the Hive the city, our position here and status across the continent, and…other assets. I will deal with him soon enough.”
For a while, Erin and the Antinium watched the dead burn. She swayed on her feet. Klbkch watched in silence.
“Yes. Many things.”
“Klbkch?”
“Yes, Erin?”
“Howdid you come back?”
“It is called the Rite of Anastases. It is a…process which the Queen of the Antinium may undertake. It allows the dead to be reborn into a new body. A secret of the Antinium.”
“Oh.”
Erin thought about that for a second.
“Okay. I understand. I think. Then…does that mean you can revive the others who died?”
“Others? Ah. You mean the individuals who were once Workers. No.”
“Why not?”
He hesitated.
“In truth, only a Prognugator would be considered…worthy of the effort and time required for such an act. Moreover, it is not something done lightly. There are consequences. I have lost ten levels in every class. A considerable setback, although my new body reduces the impact on my abilities quite significantly. And the time it took—my Queen labored for nearly two weeks without rest to restore my being.”
“That’s a lot of work.”
“There were other material costs as well. The Hive would not be able to support such an action more than once or twice. The others—”
“I get it.”
It nearly didn’t hurt. Nearly. But it was just another cut in a heart bleeding from a thousand places.
“They died well. I would not have expected mere—they rose above what they were. For that, I honor them.”
“Thanks.”
For once, Klbkch didn’t seem to know how to reply. Erin looked at him. He was as he had been, but different.
“What’s with the new body? Upgrades?”
He nodded.
“The Prognugator role was never meant for specialized action. Moreover, it was thought that the Worker form would allow a Prognugator to blend in to reduce the dangers of assassination during times of war. This new form will greatly improve my abilities.”
“Two arms are better than four?”
“Yes. I am swifter, more mobile, and possess several changes to my anatomy not incorporated into other Antinium. The older design of four arms was inefficient. This new body will serve me better.”
“Harder, better, faster, stronger, huh?”
“That is broadly correct, yes.”
“Okay.”
Klbkch was watching her. Erin knew, even if he didn’t have pupils to follow her. He hadn’t really let her leave his sight since that night. She was so tired.
“Thanks for saving me. Really.”
“It was nothing.”
“It was something.”
“Yes.”
She looked at him. Just the same as always. And then she looked at her inn. She looked at the broken wood, at the marks of violence, and at the place where a Worker named Knight had died. She looked at the dead and the Soldiers. She remembered a half-Elf, a Minotaur, a Drake obsessed with chess, and a bunch of smiling faces.
Klbkch saw Erin fold up and fall backwards. He tried to catch her, but she thumped back into the soft grass.
“Miss Solstice. Are you alright?”
Erin smiled emptily as Klbkch hovered over her. She raised one hand and let it fall.
“I’m just going to lie down for a while.”
She lay in the trampled grass as the Goblins feasted, listening to the dead burn.
Erin wept.
——
Selys sat in the Adventurer’s Guild, listening to Zevara argue with the guildmaster. Her grandmother. Not argue, really. Tekshia wanted to give out rewards to the people who had killed monsters. Zevara wanted her Watch to be included in that number, to hand out bonuses to them.
Tekshia told Zevara to take it up with the Council because the Adventurer’s Guild didn’t have enough funding. Zevara insisted she wanted that on top of a bonus from the Council to all the [Guards] who’d risked their lives.
This was background noise to Selys. She stared dreamily at her bandaged wrist and felt the healing cuts on her legs and torso burning and itching.
Even after a day, Liscor was silent. The streets were still busy, and the people still spoke. But it was a different place. Death and destruction had taken their toll, and people still mourned.
But they had survived. They had all come out stronger for their ordeals. Selys was now a [Warrior] and had gained several levels in her [Hunter] class. It was a wonderful thing, especially since she hadn’t leveled in a month.
But she was still tired. Then the reasonable debate turned into a full-blown argument. Selys turned her head as Zevara brought something else up, and this time, Tekshia refused to even hear her out.
“I want those Humans responsible for unleashing the undead held accountable!”
The Captain of the Watch was exhausted, bloody, and had saved Liscor. Selys knew her if not in person, then by reputation. She was a good leader, and she had saved countless lives during the battle with the undead. Her voice was raw, and she coughed every few words now.
Ancestor-touched. Dragon’s child.
Oldblood.
Selys thought the words, but didn’t say them out loud. Zevara had breathed fire to hold the undead back. She was a hero. But she was wrong in this.
“All the adventurers who went in are dead. Only a handful remain, and they’re in no condition to repay anyone for anything. They’ve suffered enough. Leave them alone.”
The Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor, an elderly Drake with dusky purple scales, shot back when Zevara stopped to breathe. The Drake Captain coughed a few times and glared at the old Drake, but she was unmoved. She might have bullied someone else.
But the old Drake had fought as well and saved just as many lives. She leaned on her staff this morning, looking tired. She’d finished three cups of tea Selys had brewed, and she barred Zevara’s way with her spear.
“They have nothing. Nothing will be gained from blaming them, either. The Council was glad enough when they volunteered to explore the ruins. This is on their tails as much as ours.”
“The Council wants to hold someone responsible. And if it won’t be the adventurers, it will be this Guild. You choose which one.”
Selys winced, but her grandmother just sighed.
“Stubborn child. If you really wish to push this—Selys!”
Selys jumped and tried to shuffle some papers around. Her grandmother raised her voice.
“Take Zevara to the leader of the adventurers she wants to blame so badly. Let her make her case there.”
That clearly wasn’t what Zevara had been expecting. The taller Drake hesitated when Selys poked her head around the corner.
“Um. Hi. Follow me, Watch Captain.”
She led Zevara up the stairs and into a part of the Guild reserved for injured adventurers or those in need of a place to sleep for a night. It was a section of the second floor, only large enough to house three separate adventurers at a time. And one room was occupied.
Selys pushed open the door carefully. Zevara’s breath caught as the door swung open to reveal the lone occupant.
A Human sat in a white bed, staring emptily out one window. It was a bright day with clear skies in Liscor. A bit chilly given it was winter, but winter had not yet arrived, and Yvlon Byres took no notice of the temperature.
She paid no attention to anything at all, really.
Half of the skin on her face had been torn away. Her long blonde hair was ragged; her fair skin cut and marred. She stared empty-eyed through the window, sitting and looking at nothing.
Her armor had been torn to shreds when they’d cut her out of it. Even now, Selys could remember the Human woman screaming. But now she was silent. It was little better.
“Human.”
Yvlon didn’t move. She didn’t blink. Zevara called out a few times, but Yvlon was still. The Watch Captain hesitated.
“If you’re going to try and shake her, you might as well give up. She doesn’t respond.”
Zevara turned towards the elderly drake as Selys rearranged the pillow around Yvlon, trying not to touch the female Human. She avoided the empty stare as well as Zevara, and her grandmother whispered.
“She has no coin or anything else. Everything she owned was lost in the Ruins. Her comrades, her pride, her health—what more would you take from her, good Captain?”
Zevara glared down at the older Drake, lips tight, tail thrashing.
“Someone must pay.”
“Someone must. But I don’t believe she or any of the adventurers has enough coin to cover the costs.”
Zevara looked back at Yvlon. The adventurer sat quietly in bed, back straight, hands folded. Face scarred.
The Watch Captain shook her head. She had a million things to do. Relc was patrolling for any undead while the rest of the guardsmen rebuilt. She had to go through the roster of wounded and dead, focus on rebuilding the city, address the Antinium issue for the Council.
She turned her heel. It was pointless to waste her time here arguing with a Drake three times as old as she was. Zevara strode away and turned her head only once.
Yvlon stared into the blue sky, a few feet away and a thousand miles gone. Zevara stared into her empty eyes and left.
——
Toren sat on the roof of the inn, staring at nothing and everything at the same time. Below him, Erin pounded away with a hammer, covering up broken windows with boards. She’d banned him from helping the second time he’d put a hole in a wall.
He hadn’t meant to. But on the other hand, he’d meant to. Some part of Toren knew that was the only way to earn a reprieve. And he wanted one. For the first time, he wanted to stop and think.
The skeleton sat on the roof, staring out at the empty plains. From here, he could see Liscor in the distance. The city seemed whole, and it was rebuilding quickly, according to Erin. But much like the area around the inn, marks of the battle still remained.
The battle. Toren still remembered Skinner, still remembered the countless enemies and only the pure joy of battle coupled with the need to keep Erin safe. It had been glorious, liberating.
And all too short.
It was a curious thing. He had leveled, and in doing so, he had become more. More…himself. He could think, act, feel on a level he had not previously.
Level 11.
That was what he was. It was…eight levels? Yes, a huge leap. But he had earned each one. The part of Toren that thought and remembered wondered if it was because he had wounded the large flesh-stealing creature so badly. That and the countless number of his brethren he had slain had done it.
He wondered how many levels the small Goblin had gained. How many levels her tribe had gained. It was meaningless, and yet it was not. Why should he care what level a Goblin was? Unless she was a threat, it was meaningless.
But some part of Toren wondered. And it was that part which had awakened after the battle as he had gained those levels. He had begun to think, and that was a mystery in itself. A welcome one to be sure, but vexing nonetheless.
Now, he could ask why he obeyed. Now, he could think of Erin as a person, not just as a master. Now, he could wonder…
The red gemstone turned in his skeletal hands. Toren could sense the magic contained within. He had taken it from the creature of skin, plucked it away. It had powerful magic. It had fear; he understood that much. But how might he use it? Should he use it? Should he give it to Erin?
No. Yes. Perhaps. It was not so simple anymore. Toren studied the gemstone. It was red, darker red than crimson. The red of dried blood and death. He had taken it from Skinner; he didn’t know where its twin had gone. But one was all he needed.
Needed…for what exactly? Toren wasn’t sure, but he was beginning to understand. Something was calling to him. He didn’t know what yet, but he would in time. If he had more levels, he would understand more. And when he did, perhaps he would think more. Perhaps he would question more. And then when he had levelled enough—
“Hey, Toren! Get your bony butt down here and help me lift this thing!”
A voice from below. His master’s. Or was it mistresses’? He had had a master, once. The mage called Pisces. But he was no longer a master. Was Erin a master? Or a mistress? Or was she neither? Another question.
He had so many. But not enough time to consider them, and Erin was beginning to yell again.
Toren got up without sighing. Skeletons didn’t sigh. But he looked at the red crimson eye in his hand. She would not want it. She would take it away. Therefore, he had thought about what to do.
Carefully, very carefully, he opened his mouth and placed the gem inside. It was quite simple. A bit of sticky tar used for repairing the inn’s roof and it could be stored in the hollow of his skull, where brains were normally kept. That way no one would see it.
It was the [Tactician] part of him that suggested it, and the rest of him agreed. Toren made sure the gemstone was firmly tucked away and stuck in place before he leapt from the rooftop. He was stronger now, that was clear. Strong enough to help Erin wrestle the planks of wood into place and hold them there while she hammered nails haphazardly into the wood.
Stronger, yes, and more aware. But what would that lead to? What would he become?
For the first time, Toren asked these questions. And for the first time, he was curious to find out the answer.
A bit of crimson light flashed in the blue flames of his eyes. Only for a second.
——
The morning lengthened on, and many important things happened. Just like yesterday and the day before that. They were important things, surely, for each person who experienced them thought of themselves as important.
In his hiding place in the plains, Pisces dragged away another body he had managed to save from the purging flames. It was an effort to bring them so far, but worth it. He propped the Ghoul’s headless body against a wall and studied the piece of the dead Crypt Lord that occupied most of the dirt cave. He smiled gleefully, as a child about to unwrap a present might. But he wavered a moment before he tried to copy the design wholesale.
There was love of death and…he stared at the Crypt Lord’s face and remembered how the undead had poured in.
“It should be more beautiful than that. It must be. I have to prove to her why I am different. Why I am—better.”
That was all he said. Then he continued his studies.
——
Somehow, after that terrible night of death and carnage, the world was still turning on. Liscor even had visitors coming through the gates. The Watch was busy checking for remaining undead and helping clear the rubble, but the presence on the walls of Liscor was strong.
It meant it was easier to steal and cause trouble if you were a thief. Most of Liscor’s underworld criminals were inactive, though, perhaps counting how close they too had come to being slaughtered.
Yet a young woman, a Human girl, a thief—crouched in an alleyway, scarfing down baked treats she’d stolen from a bakery window. She was figuring out what she needed next. She wouldn’t have cared if the undead had killed all the filthy lizards and furry half-breeds in the city. She was starving, alone, and desperate.
Her head only rose when a vehicle rolled past the mouth of the alley. The girl crept forwards—and her eyes went wide. She stared at the pinkest carriage she had ever seen in her life, which Drakes and Gnolls glanced up at.
Some recognized it, yet vaguely, for it had never come to Liscor before. But the girl—she dropped one of her half-eaten rolls and ran, shouting.
“Magnolia! Magnolia Reinhart! It’s me!”
She ran, waving her hands, as the carriage navigated the streets and pedestrians. The driver turned his head back—and the young woman with dyed blonde hair already revealing fiery red roots threw back a hood, lifting a hand. She expected to be recognized.
A window rolled down, and for a second, she caught a glimpse of the woman inside.
Lady Magnolia Reinhart was speaking to the air, through a [Communication] spell so powerful that the girl couldn’t see who she was talking to. She glanced out, and the young woman saw her gaze pass absently over her face. Magnolia stared behind her—then calmly rolled the window back up.
The carriage accelerated. The thief ran after it, screaming now, but it just rolled away until she lost it in the streets. She only gave up when one of the Gnoll [Guardswomen] asked if something was wrong. Then she fled, cursing Magnolia’s name.
——
Ressa looked back through the one-way glass window enchanted to be proof against arrows and magic and casual observers. She had seen the young woman and recognized her.
“She made it all the way here. That’s actually commendable. Was that—kind?”
Her voice was careful, and the normally taciturn [Maid] looked up as Magnolia Reinhart lifted a finger. The [Lady] glanced up, and she spoke to a sulking figure in the air.
“One moment, Teriarch. Ressa—I am speaking to an old man with difficulties in splitting his attention. Really, do you think this is appropriate?”
The [Maid] just folded her arms and glanced pointedly behind her where the young woman had been.
“Old man? You go too far, child. First, you give me orders to find people as if I were your personal [Diviner]. Then you lecture me on—”
Magnolia muted the spell with a finger. She looked back as well, though the ‘thief’ had long vanished. Her face was…inhospitable in this moment.
Tight. She looked so pained that Ressa almost forgave her uncharitableness. The [Lady] took another deep breath.
“That girl. What of her, Ressa? Yes, I saw her. Yes, she made it far. Commendable in some respects.”
“She might die out here. She didn’t look like she was doing well. Theofore claims she’s mostly stealing.”
Magnolia made a disgusted sound as she tapped her lips.
“Has she considered working? One imagines she could.”
“No…nor does she seem keen on speaking with any Drakes or Gnolls. But her gold’s run out.”
“She has quite a lot on her. If I took her in, then what? She would be the most insufferable headache imaginable. To me, personally, to you…”
Ressa grimaced, and Magnolia went on. Teriarch had huffily closed the spell when he realized he was muted. Typical.
The carriage was slowing, and she wasn’t looking behind her. Only ahead at the two-story building they’d come to.The sign was simple, ubiquitous…and Magnolia saw the driver leap out and open the door for her. But she hesitated as Ressa got out. Her eyes fixed on that sign, and she paused a second.
Adventurer’s Guild.
When she did leave the carriage, Magnolia nodded to the man standing in his prim suit, attracting stares from the Drakes and Gnolls.
“Thank you, Reynold. I—I may take a while.”
“Very good, Lady Reinhart. I shall take the carriage around back.”
He stepped back, and Magnolia looked into the guild as a [Receptionist] poked her head over the counter and saw two more [Maids] appear and hold the doors open. Selys’ jaw dropped, but Magnolia just stared inside, then turned.
“Ressa. I have so much to do. And so little time for someone who does nothing with everything. I would rather…”
Her gaze flitted towards the staircase as Guildmistress Tekshia herself stomped over, facing Magnolia and Ressa warily. Magnolia’s lips moved.
“…I would rather take all my time for those who try for everything. Should I have meddled?”
She looked lost, a moment, and Ressa stared at her mistress in silence.
“You let them try.”
“Yes.”
That was all Magnolia said. Then she turned and smiled with a faraway look at Tekshia, and Selys, eyes wide, heard the [Lady]’s voice.
“Guildmistress.”
“Lady Reinhart. Is that how I should address you?”
The woman laughed. That laugh was fake, polite—and her eyes were still elsewhere. Above. She looked up those stairs, and Tekshia’s glance at her became knowing.
“Oh. Are you here for your guest? If you want to take her…”
“No. No, Guildmistress. I am not here. In fact, I should be grateful if you let me tarry a moment…then I will depart. Without interfering in your city or falling afoul of your Council. I know that I am not—well liked here.”
“Some wouldn’t mind your presence. I—personally think you’re a dangerous distraction. But fine. You have a right to see her. You two are related, aren’t you?”
“Distantly.”
Magnolia began to walk for the stairs, ignoring everyone else. A few of the adventurers seemed to realize she was important, but Magnolia really had come like a ghost. She only halted when Tekshia put her spear out to block her. Ressa had a hand on the spear’s haft—and the two, Drake and Human, stared at each other.
“Is something wrong, Guildmistress? I hope you do not wish to bring up—the past at this moment.”
“Not at all.”
The Drake held Magnolia’s gaze. Then she held out a claw.
“—I just thought that if you were here, you could settle this young woman’s accommodations. Especially if you aren’t taking her. Liscor is rebuilding, and the Adventurer’s Guild doesn’t take charity.”
Magnolia’s eyes flickered. For a moment, they looked—upset. Then she exhaled. She looked about the city, where Drakes and Gnolls were rebuilding. She nodded to Ressa, and the [Maid], expressionless, dipped a hand into a bag of holding and produced a note. Magnolia nodded to her, and the [Maid] scribbled on it before producing a wax seal and her sapphire-silver Runner’s seal.
“Will—this do? For lodging?”
Tekshia regarded the note and snatched it from Ressa’s hand.
“I think the Watch Captain will appreciate it. It will keep her from jailing the survivors. Selys, send a Runner for the Merchant’s Guild and make a list of the homes that got wrecked. And the families that lost members of the Watch. That idiot, Lism, might know about children.”
“Y-yes, Grandmother.”
“It’s Guildmaster. This way, Reinhart. You won’t take her?”
One old, yellow eye, still sharp as an edge of topaz, swung to regard Magnolia. The [Lady] blinked.
It was almost as if she hadn’t been paying attention, despite the sum that was making Selys’ eyes pop and hold onto the little card like it was an artifact. She looked at Tekshia—and smiled. This time, the smile seemed as if someone had stabbed her.
“No. I let my family make their own choices, for better or worse. I do not interfere. Would you think less of me for that?”
The [Guildmistress] looked Magnolia in the eyes, then at her granddaughter.
“I don’t bother with holding tails. I let the young make their own mistakes. It worked with me.”
“How else would they rise?”
The Human woman agreed absently. She followed Tekshia up the stairs to the few guest rooms the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor had. But she stopped at the door as Tekshia opened it. She whispered, then.
“—If only I could catch them as they fell.”
Then she walked into that room and sat down. A blank-faced young woman with blonde hair stared past her. She didn’t react as Magnolia Reinhart sat on a stool that Ressa found, arranging her skirts. Magnolia reached out as Tekshia glanced at them—then closed the door.
“Yvlon? My dear—it’s me. Can you hear me?”
There was no response. Just a blank, blue stare as lost as the sun amidst the clouds. Magnolia glanced at the skin torn from her face.
“Ressa, can you…? An ointment or something?”
“She may want the scar.”
Magnolia’s eyes flashed—then she moderated her tone.
“A scar will haunt her—perhaps she will want it. But one cannot be undone.Something, Ressa.”
“Very well.”
The [Maid] fussed around at her belt, then produced a poultice, not a healing potion, and dabbed it carefully across the wound. Yvlon shivered—but it was an automatic reaction. There was no one behind those blue eyes. Her hand was limp. Magnolia sat there, speaking, but there…there was no reaction.
“Will she recover, Ressa? She looks as Ulva did after Petra died.”
“I can’t say. She’s tough. Her entire family is.”
Done, Ressa closed the lid on the jar and stood. Yvlon kept staring out the window as Magnolia squeezed her hand tighter. She sat, hearing the Adventurer’s Guild move around her, the banging in the distance of [Carpenters], and occasionally, watching as Yvlon Byres blinked.
“I am sorry, Yvlon. I am so…I hoped you would come out of there covered in glory. I did not know. I cannot be everywhere. I should be, but I am one woman. Even now, you will not see me for some time. I am going north. Leaving all of you to your fates.”
She waited, perhaps hoping that blank face would turn to her and show something angry. Blue eyes…not green like emeralds, but Magnolia Reinhart spoke softly.
“You did all you could. You…were so brave. I am sure you were.If I could have—I always hope you succeed. You did not need me. That was what I thought. I am an unkind [Lady] of House Reinhart because I always expect it of you and all the others. I truly did think I would see you at a party in your honor. Now, I wish I could stay. But…”
She looked north. Yvlon sat there, her blonde hair untidy. Someone had helped cut her out of the remains of her silver armor. She looked perfectly fine for the nightmare she had escaped—save for the scar of flesh ripped from her features. Ressa’s ointment covered it, orange and smelling faintly acrid.
The white sheets, the calm, little guest room looked too perfect for the scar. The city, likewise, almost pleasant until you saw how people mourned in the streets in knots and how the smell of dead flesh and the acrid burning of the corpses lingered in the air.
The sunlight fell across Magnolia’s own dirtier blonde hair. She did not look like a young woman in her prime, an adventurer filled with dreams of fame and success like Yvlon had but a day ago. Her gaze seemed to be, like the city, no longer as pure.
Scarred. As if the wound on Yvlon’s face were long healed and a figment captured in Magnolia’s stare. All of that followed her head as it looked north. As if tracing a line of responsibility for her to follow. Her voice was low as she spoke, enunciating each word into the small room such that it felt like they left a trail. Echoing.
“…There are those who did not seek this. Something is happening, Yvlon. I need to seek it out. This time—I can’t be too late.”
She gazed back at Yvlon, and her hand squeezed tight on the yong woman’s.
“You have lost your team. Your friends. This moment must seem unbearable.”
Even now, Yvlon’s face never changed. But she flinched, and Magnolia Reinhart stood there, her own eyes glittering. Cold, green diamonds. Not merciless—pained, but harsh.
“You have lost more than you can dream. Yet, and yet, Yvlon Byres—mourn. Weep. Sit there as long as you must. But Izril will demand you to one day rise again and stand. You must. You will.”
Her gaze sought something in Yvlon’s expression—with such a painful—selfishness. As if she hoped that the young woman’s gaze would sharpen within a day of all of this. But nothing changed, and after six minutes, Magnolia slowly let go of Yvlon’s hand. She rose, painfully, trying to linger—but she did rise.
“I wish I could stay.”
Then she turned, hesitated by the doorframe—and spoke quietly to her [Maid]. Magnolia Reinhart looked back once, her eyes lighting on Yvlon’s face a mix of emotions she could not express in mere words. Then she was gone, her carriage rolling north. She could not undo time for Yvlon. So she spent only a moment here.
And still—the city kept breathing. It kept moving as Yvlon Byres blankly stared out the window, seeing nothing at all. People.
Changing.
——
Relc patrolled the city; Ksmvr knelt trembling before his wroth Queen. Garia ran her deliveries, wondering all the while where her friend had gone. And more. More people carried out their lives and shaped the world in ways small and large.
But one girl ran through the grass, tired, exhausted. She had run for two days, running back through the grass, north along seldom-used roads from the Blood Fields. She had left in anger and despair. But as morning came over Liscor—
Ryoka returned.
——
It took her two hours to get to the city through the Floodplains. When she arrived, Ryoka stopped and stared a while. She wandered into the city and smelled burnt flesh, walked past destroyed homes, and heard those mourning the dead. She came to the Adventurer’s Guild in a daze, never seeing the pink carriage already pulling out the northern gates.
She asked about her friends. She asked about Ceria and Calruz and Gerial and Sostrom. She listened and felt the world drop away.
The Drake receptionist took her to a small room with a small bed. She opened the door, and Ryoka sat next to Yvlon for a while. The other girl’s eyes were blank, and she scratched at the scarred flesh on her face. Healing potions could close a lot of wounds. But sometimes…
After a while, Ryoka stood up. Yvlon paid no notice. The girl walked out of the guild and out of the city. She walked towards the ruins and saw the entrance had been blockaded. Twenty giant ant-men stood in front of a wall of dirt, barring entry.
She watched them until it was too much to bear. Ryoka left the ruins and walked through the long grass outside of Liscor. She walked until she was lost among the grass, walking and walking without a purpose.
Ryoka never noticed the Goblin that rose out of the grass, following her. She never noticed the large rock that moved towards her slowly. She walked on, staring at the sky.
She did not cry. She did not rage. She was empty. Emptiness became her.
Guilt and sadness was the air she breathed. Death walked next to her and whispered in her ear. Ryoka walked and scarcely thought.
When it was all too much, Ryoka stopped. The Goblin drew a sharp knife from his side, and the moving stone crept up on both Goblin and Humans, unnoticed.
Ryoka took a deep breath. She stood in the plains andscreamed. The moving boulder jerked. The Goblin froze.
Large, leathery birds rose out of the grass in panic. They flew away as the Goblin leapt back, clapping his hands to his ears, and the Rock Crab scuttled back in alarm. The sound pierced the air, travelled miles, and made travellers on the road look up at the sky.
Ryoka screamed until she could bear it no more. She punched at the ground wildly, tore at her own hair. She screamed and screamed until her body was unable to scream any more.
Then Ryoka stopped.
Her throat was raw, and she coughed and tasted blood. Ryoka had to sip from one of the healing potions she’d bought before she could breathe without agony.
She walked on, despairing. Ryoka tripped over a rock and fell face-first onto the ground. She lay there a while. Empty.
After a while, her stomach growled. Ryoka ignored it.
She lay on the ground, cursing it. She cursed the blue sky and the citizens of Liscor and the adventurers. She cursed the undead, the monster that had killed her friends. She cursed the dead gods, the ones she had known, the world she now lived in, and the one she had come from. She cursed all things and especially herself.
This is who she was. This is who she had been. Ryoka was filled with that same self-loathing she had gone to the Bloodfields with. But she had come back all this way, survived Persua and it all so she could…
Apologize.Apologize to whom? They were gone. Yvlon was the only survivor, and she hadn’t moved a muscle as Ryoka talked to her. Ryoka’s tears trickled into the grass. She should never have gone.
She should have come back sooner. Ryoka lay there for what must have been an hour as the Goblin with the knife stared at her. She was utterly defenseless.
The knife-Goblin looked at Ryoka, then at the distant Goblins celebrating their victory over Skinner. It stared at the little Chieftain, Rags, and then at that broken inn on a hill. All these things the Goblin weighed. Did they matter at all?
It looked at the tears falling from the young woman. And the Goblin—put away its knife. He walked away, and Ryoka lay there. Weeping into the grass.
——
After a while, her stomach growled again. This time, Ryoka listened and sat up.
She scrubbed at her face with handfuls of grass and looked around. Evening. She was starving and lost. But when she looked towards Liscor, she saw a building on a hill. When Ryoka drew closer, she saw it was an inn.
Like the city, it had been touched by death and battle. The inn was cracked in places, broken in others. The ground was churned in places; the soil upturned and grass trampled. An outhouse around back had been smashed in one part.
Everything had been hastily patched back up. Ryoka eyed the boards nailed clumsily together. They spoke of life, and she was starving.
She looked up at the sign above the inn.
The Wandering Inn. Like the rest of the building, the words were scratched in places, and green blood had dried on part of the sign.
Yet still the inn stood. It drew Ryoka, although she couldn’t say why. Here was a place to rest. A place to eat, perhaps. Or just a place to wait until the pain went away.
It would do.
Ryoka put her hand on the door and hesitated. She stared at the half-ruined building. Then she turned away.
If her friends had been inside, laughing and celebrating their near escape or even wounded, in need of help, Ryoka would have pushed that door in and come in shyly, begging forgiveness. But they were gone. She had been told this was where they were staying. What was there inside?
Nothing for her. Ryoka stepped back. Her heart still hurt too much for words, much less mundane company. Ryoka turned, ignoring her stomach. She was empty.
She walked down the slope, not knowing where she was going. Perhaps north. Perhaps nowhere. She just had to run. Run, and run.
Because there was nothing left to stop for anymore.
Ryoka took out her iPhone and turned it on. She began to walk and then to jog. She made it ten steps before a sound distracted her.
Her phone began to ring. Ryoka stared at it. Slowly, she hit the glowing green button and raised her phone to her ear.
“…Hello?”
End of Volume 1
Author’s Note:
It has been seven years, I think. Seven years since I began writing Volume 1 of The Wandering Inn, at the beginning of all of this.
If it was six or eight, don’t correct me. Seven sounds better. I will be publishing Volume 1, rewritten, on my birthday. With it, I am finally happy enough to let this be printed, and while I have kept the bones of the old story, I have added and tweaked and rewritten some chapters because I am a far better author than I was.
All the old chapters will be kept up for people to read if they wish, but this is better. Better because I did not erase what made the old good, but added onto it, I feel.
I have many people to thank. All my readers for making The Wandering Inn more popular than I could have hoped for. Diana Gill for editing it. My assistant and agent for helping organize all this. And my beta-reading crew and the typo-killing squad, who went through hundreds of thousands of words to make this the best experience possible.
I do not share much about myself, because I am not much of a public person. I am at my best when I am writing, and while sometimes I’d love to be a public author, I think ‘pirateaba’ is my best side. Writers are not necessarily good at speaking, and fame is like a rabid squirrel. You may want to chase it, until it bites you. And then it never lets go and you’re infected.
…The point I am making is this. I have written The Wandering Inn for seven years. It is the most I have devoted to anything in my life except perhaps school—and this is one project. After seven years, I am a far better writer than when I began, and I am glad to come back and give new readers the experience the story deserves.
It is not perfect, and I am learning. But the web serial continues. We are on Volume 9 and there is a ways to go. I hope I can make it. My birthday is tomorrow. When you read this, I will be old. My time is short and I fear I may not make it to the end.
I’m turning 30 tomorrow. I was 23 when I began. That’s my pirateaba fact after seven years, and yes, this is an attack on anyone older than me. The Wandering Inn has been an amazing amount of change for me, writing it and learning. Everything that comes after and because of this story is amazing. Thanks for reading, or re-reading, and I hope you continue to enjoy the story.
–pirateaba
Previous ChapterNext Chapter

Comments
TWI Web Admin (2023-03-05T07:26:41)
I hope you enjoyed Volume 1! If you’re a new reader you have so much good bread to look forward to! Go forth and feast!
uh leave typos here. for the last time! for me. pirate did the rest of the comments.
Bye!
Tomeo (2023-03-05T09:29:03)
She gazed back at Yvlon, and her hand squeezed tight on the yong woman’s.
yong –> young
Tari (2023-03-10T21:50:26)
Thank you for writing
Ally (2023-03-17T18:44:18)
Now, Bird sat on the ground outside of the first bonfire, so vast and hot that it was baking the ground, splitting the earth and threatening to set the cold grass on fire. The heat and light reflected off his armor. – should armor be chitin?
wizerdo37 (2023-03-22T00:06:22)
thank you author i quite liked this novel so far, here i go volume 2
let’s see…
Ryuuku (2023-03-25T18:47:33)
Arg, Ryouka can never meet Erin! I knew it…
Because they’re likely going to be enemies one day, right? Maybe…
Deli (2023-04-14T22:31:43)
I came because someone told me about a slice of life novel.
Nobody told me it was a trauma rollercoaster… great work, also fuck you for making me love/hate this.
Thaecrasis (2023-04-18T23:11:29)
I love this story so much, I can’t even put it into words properly.
Potentiate (2023-06-01T00:54:36)
And it only gets better!
reader (2023-06-05T15:53:44)
wow, the author really doesn’t want them to meet huh
Borantio (2023-06-17T23:58:45)
Thanks for the stories.
BertieD (2023-07-05T15:28:00)
I can’t believe it took me this long to get round to reading this.
Švindlí? (2023-08-15T15:09:52)
Thank you. It’s great.
Saruul (2023-08-20T19:13:40)
Ahh its been so long. I was 17 when i started readng Wandering inn and now im 23. Its the best Fiction i’ve ever consumed. Reading Wandering inn and getting immersed in the world is better than any other reading, watching and playing i’ve ever done. I am forever thankful for Pirateaba for writing such a wonderful story.
Josh (2023-09-12T13:41:30)
Hey I am just curious if you are going to keep rewriting if I should wait for volume 2 to reread it?
Takusaka (2023-10-05T18:59:08)
I don’t think you need to wait, it might take pirateaba a long time to rewrite 10 million words, just keep on reading and when a rewrite happens just reread, like me.
Takusaka (2023-10-05T19:00:53)
Thank you so much for the wandering inn I don’t know how long I’ve been reading this novel for but I love it and still do, enjoying the reread!
Dr. Derpington (2023-10-17T03:19:27)
I read through all of this in like 3 days, as someone who reads books like people eat air I can confirm that this story is top 10% of all the stuff I’ve read. Good shit.
Wilhelm (2023-11-04T20:23:03)
Great ride for the first volume!
Still can’t stand the R though lol
Wilhelm (2023-11-04T21:18:40)
As a volume 1 end note ; I think Ryoka will never sit well with me.
The entire concept of “barefoot runner without skill who’s super fast and strong anyway” is too over the top for me it’s totally pulling me out and ruining my suspension of disbelief anytime I see her name. It’s a shame, really.
And that’s without even talking about her personality and character overall. Frankly if she was the “MC” of the first volume I would have dropped this novel a long time ago.
It wouldn’t surprise me if some people did.
But the world building is soooo great. I have my own characters and universe in my mind but I’ll clearly never write it out like this and it will die with me, I admire people who can flesh it out.
Also people using real insectoids and do non-humanoid furries are MVP ahaha
PS : come on 30 years old isn’t that old lol
Aria (2023-11-07T18:34:30)
Is it just me or is there more posted online than what is read in the audio books? Like at the end of each book it seems the audio book ends but online it keeps going? I don’t know, can someone please explain????
Broock (2023-11-21T04:32:05)
Hey, thanks for writting AND rewriting this and sharing it. For free noneless.
It was a fun and long ride and I’m so glad to know it is only the beginning for me.
I’m amazed and humbled by you work.
I came to the Inn because internet said to me that it was a good litrpg and I was curious about this genre but wasn’t sure about what to read.
The first time I used thé website I was confused: ” Where can I get thé book? I want to read it on my kindle not listen to it or read it on my phone!”
So I gave up but. I wondered… How does the Wandering Inn wander? Is it like Howl’s Moving Castle? So I did give it a try but. I still don’t know how the Inn is going to wander. I hope I will learn more about it on the next volume. Or in thé next one, or the next one.
Anyway see you in the next volume, where I’m going to write pointless comments in french until the very end.
Bonne lecture à tous.
Broock (2023-11-25T18:23:15)
It’s me again, just to correct something I said. On the website, when you clic on the link that is supposed to get you to the e-books it only show you the audiobooks so I through there was no e-books. But there is, with just searching “wandering Inn amazon” on google I found it so yeah, my bad.
Toni (2023-12-06T18:40:39)
Haha, I’m guessing it’s more like they both need some character growth so they don’t end up hating each other when they meet lol
Almighty-Darkseid (2024-01-11T16:34:28)
Thank you, pirateaba. It’s been a wonderful experience reading this updated version. And happy very late birthday.
Buggy (2024-01-31T02:18:44)
Depends how far you are. There are no audiobooks for this new version of volume 1.
The audio books, starting from volume 3 I believe, start splitting the volume up into several books, as the volumes get longer and longer.
So for example book 3 and book 4 in the audiobooks fall onto Volume 3 of what is online.
Other than Volume 1 (now with this rewrite) everything in the audiobooks is online, but there are millions of more words so far than audiobooks.
1sanguine1 (2024-02-15T22:33:56)
Only gets better from here :) by book 7 almost every chapter had me pausing at the end to think about what I read. So many moments where the glory sends chills up my arms. This is a truly once in a genre type of story. I imagine in the future it will have comparable weight to the very greatest of fantasy.
Amoki (2024-03-20T22:32:19)
How can a girl who stole so much be still starving. She stole multiple gold from Erin and plenty from others.
Dan Robb (2024-05-31T13:28:49)
Tekshia is Shivertail, not Silverfang.
Zai (2024-07-08T22:11:48)
People who constantly cast magic seem to need to eat more.
oLee42 (2024-08-27T18:11:19)
Wow. What an incredible ending to an already incredible book. Chef‘s kiss, just perfect.
AbraCadaver (2024-10-11T08:45:05)
Do you have to keep taunting me about Ryoka and Erin not meeting tho…? T_T
RougeEmber (2024-12-03T02:47:57)
on the yong woman’s.
Lotus (2025-01-13T21:36:58)
Finished the first volume ?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
